Hello guys,

You must all be very busy with your courseworks atm and are probably stressed out about the upcoming exams as well. One of your classmates reached out asking for advice about preparing the ML exam and whether there will be heavy maths in it or not. My answer ended up being rather long and comprehensive, so I thought I’d share it with everyone else here, who knows, maybe it’ll help some of you.

Our exam from last year was of medium difficulty with respect to the students’ knowledge/skills, not too easy but not too hard either. Regarding the maths, it's relatively light which is to be expected. Many students from the MSc don't have the necessary maths knowledge for a proper theoretical ML course, so Artur has to adapt to that fact in his exam (or else, most people will fail).

The exam usually starts with Multiple choice questions counting for about 15-20 points. Some of them are tricky, so don't rush your answers. Some are standard questions from the lectures, but others may require a little bit of reflection. An interesting one that we got last year is : Bootstrapping can replace Cross-validation for estimating the generalization performance (True or False) —> the answer is True. Another tricky one we got :  MLE (Maximum Likelihood Estimation) on average overestimates the variance of a Gaussian distribution by a factor of N/(N-1) (True or False) —> the answer is False, it underestimates the variance by a factor of (N-1)/N.

The second type of questions you'll get is knowledge-based questions. You need to know the material in your lectures well in order to answer these, but they don't require much time or reflection. You usually either know the answer or you don't. For example : what is pruning in a decision tree ? Give 3 example of applications that can use HMMs. (we didn't get these, it's just for illustration)

The third type of questions are math questions in the sense that math formulas are expected (but no derivations). One we got last year is : Explain Expectation Maximization and provide the formulas (EM’s formulas are complex and rather long but if you understand the algorithm well, and you went over your lectures, you should be able to output them without memorizing).

The fourth type of questions, is more practical in nature, and will test your understanding of how algorithms work. In our exam : we got 3 decision trees drawn (with their parameters and everything), and a bunch of inputs. Then, we were asked to give the output of each tree, given each input. Next, we were asked a question about combining those trees into a random forest and what would the output of random forest be in this case (for classification it should be a majority vote, and for regression an average usually). This type of questions should be easy, as long as you understand how algos work. Also, most of them will be based on your labs and class exercices, so make sure you take the time to cover them.

These 4 types of questions are very likely to be in your exam. The fifth type, which you may or may not get, is more about problem solving and stuff you have probably never seen before (but within the context of algos and concepts you covered In class). One such example is : Strategies for choosing K in K-means (you probably have this example in your mock exams revision paper), we didn't get this type of questions in the ML exam but we got a couple of them in the Neural Computing exam (which most students couldn’t solve). In general, I wouldn’t worry about these, skip them if you have to, but don’t waste too much time on them.

I would say, you can get 70+ just by going through the lecture slides + Class exercices + Labs and understanding them well (though it is easier said than done). If you go the extra mile and read (and understand) bishop’s book, you'll find the exam relatively easy. I would personally encourage you to read bishop’s chapters about topics that are rather complex and aren’t that well explained in the lecture slides. Expectation Maximization, HMMs, and Regression Models are chapters I think you should read from the book if you really want to understand them well.

Finally, no matter what the difficulty of the exam is, it's very easy to make mistakes or give half answers and lose points. There is a limited number of questions in the exam, meaning each question will have 5-10 points assigned to it. So try to provide as many details as possible in your answers. That said, time management will also be crucial. Don’t spend too much time on any question, if you get stuck on a question for more than 5 mins, move on to the next. Once you've covered the whole exam, you can come back to the difficult ones you couldn’t solve in the first pass. For information, last year’s ML exam was not really long, but the NC one was.

That’s all from me. Wish you all the best, folks !