The Cost of Early School-leaving and School Failure *

June 2008

Clive Belfield
Economics Department
Queens College,
City University of New York
Clive.belfield@qc.cuny.edu

Summary
This report examines how low educational attainment is associated with significant economic
costs for private individuals, for taxpayers, and for society. Specifically, higher education levels
are associated with higher earnings, increased labor market participation, better health status
(including lower prevalence of epidemic disease), and improvements in family decision-making;
education is also associated with lower rates of poverty and intra-household benefits such as
improved family nutrition. We describe the method for calculating these costs of school failure.
We then highlight methodological challenges as well as key assumptions that underlie estimates
of the overall costs of school failure. The method is illustrated with case studies from seven
countries: Indonesia; Ghana; Kenya; Pakistan; Mexico; Chile; Ukraine; and Egypt. Using the
best available research evidence, we calculate the gross costs of school failure for each of these
countries. In each case these costs are significant. However, the magnitude of these costs
depends on several key assumptions, including: the appropriate discount rate; the valuation of
informal activity; and the economic value of improved health.

* Research prepared for the World Bank. The author appreciates support from Tazeen Fasih and
Harry Patrinos.

1. Introduction
This report investigates the economic consequences for nations from failing to adequately educate
their citizens. Hundreds of studies have established the income gains from having more
education such that investment in more schooling would pass a cost-benefit test (see
Psacharopoulos and Patrinos, 2004). That is, the present value of the investment in education
would be exceeded by the present value of the resulting economic benefits, as expressed in
money terms (McMahon, 1998). But, basing educational investment decisions solely on the
earnings gains is incomplete: as documented below, there are many other effects of education that
might justifiably be included in a benefit–cost analysis. Such analysis should include this full
range of benefits from education, expressed in present values, to set against the costs of the
investment. Yet despite the simplicity of the evaluation method, and the need for a complete
accounting, it has been only infrequently applied at the national level. As such, it is not possible
to determine whether national education policies and investments in schools and colleges are
optimal.
Recent research has begun to investigate the costs of school failure or inadequate
education. 1 It finds substantial economic benefits to individuals and countries when education
levels are higher; alternatively put, nations are losing significant opportunities for improvements
in economic well-being by failing to ensure that citizens have sufficient education and skills. The
economic magnitudes are such that there is a strong imperative for governments to invest more in
public education. However, this work has focused primarily on the U.S. and Europe, mature
economies with relatively small informal labor markets and large government expenditures as a
proportion of GDP. Research for other countries is very limited. Evidence on the costs of
inadequate education ultimately depends on how education influences economic behaviors and
who benefits, and these influences may vary from country to country.
1

Psacharopoulos (2007); Belfield and Levin (2007); and World Bank (2003). Looking just at low levels of
literacy for the United Kingdom, KPMG Foundation (2006) estimates the costs at ₤45,000 per person.
1

This report makes two contributions to the research on the costs of inadequate education.
First, we develop the method for estimating the costs of inadequate education, as applied to a
broader set of countries. Second, we assess the potential costs of inadequate in eight countries:
Mexico; Chile; Ukraine; Ghana; Kenya; Egypt; Indoneisa; and Pakistan. 2 These eight countries
were selected to include a variety of global circumstances of developing economies: central/South
America; one centrally-planned Soviet economy; three African countries, one Arabic; a large
Asian economy; and a large low-income nation with very low education levels. This variety
allows us to compare and contrast different methodological and empirical aspects of the costs of
inadequate education. These comparisons are important in highlighting the key assumptions
needed to calculate costs of school failure.
The report is structured as follows. First, we review the education levels in each of the
eight countries. This review allows us to assess the extent to which education levels might be
suboptimal. Second, we describe in detail the assumptions behind calculations of the costs and
benefits of inadequate education. We consider issues of specific relevance to developing
countries, including child labor, the appropriate discount rate, and the system of governance.
Third, we calculate the costs of inadequate education for each of the eight selected countries. For
each country we follow a modular template approach that: (a) describes key aspects of the
education system, including the extent to which families are constrained in their enrollment
decisions; (b) identifies the earnings premium from education; (c) assesses other economic
benefits from education (e.g. health and long-term well-being); and (d) calculates a lifetime
present value cost of inadequate education. We emphasize that, for two reasons, these
calculations are provisional. One is that there are a number of unresolved issues in relation to
applications of the cost–benefit method at a national level; and the other is that the data available

2

From our literature review, for none of these countries has a full economic burden been calculated. For
other countries, partial costing models have been undertaken in relation to specific social burdens (such as
HIV/AIDS) but generally these models have not be related to educational status.
2

for each country is far from ideal. Nevertheless, these figures give an indication of the costs of
school failure and the extent to which public investments are optimal.

3

2. Educational Status
2.1 Measuring education levels
Table 1A shows basic educational and demographic data for the selected countries from the
Barro-Lee dataset from 1980 to 2000 (data for the Ukraine is from UNESCO). Each country has
experienced significant population growth over the last two decades. Per capita educational
attainment has also increased over this period. However, as of 2000, for each country, the
average years of schooling per person aged over 24 is low: less than 8 years in Chile; 7 in
Mexico; 5 in Egypt and Indonesia; 4 in Ghana and Kenya; and 2.5 in Pakistan. With the
exception of Chile and Mexico, the average years of schooling per person does not ensure that
each individual has completed primary school. In fact, in Egypt, Ghana, Kenya, and Indonesia
one-third to one-half of the population has not completed primary school. Yet, for those who
complete secondary education, each country has a growing higher education system, albeit from a
relatively small base.
Table 1B gives further information about each education system (World Bank data,
2005). Three countries have almost complete adult literacy (Chile, Mexico, and the Ukraine), but
three have a significant proportion of adults who are not literate; and in Pakistan and Ghana,
roughly half of the population is not literate. Each country spends public funds on education:
spending varies from 2.3% of GNP up to 6.7%, with the higher figure above the proportion for
the OECD countries (the OECD average for 2005 was 5.8%, www.oecdinfigures). However, this
high spending ratio includes a significant investment in higher education. As shown in the final
panel of Table 1B, both Kenya and Ghana – despite majorities of the population only at primary
level – invest heavily in higher education: per student spending for higher education is more than
twice as much as per capita GDP. Also, Indonesia spends an amount equivalent to GDP per
capita on each student enrolled in higher education.

4

There are significant differences in education levels by sex. Unlike OECD countries,
where the high school graduation rate for females is above that of males in all but two countries
(Turkey and South Korea), educational disparities favor males in developing countries. In
examining illiteracy rates, the rates in Egypt are 17% for males but 40% for females and in
Indonesia 6% versus 13% (MENA, 2007, Table 1.9). For Ghana, attainment differences are
stark, with males aged 20-24 having on average 8.3 years of schooling, compared to 5.5 for
females. For Pakistan, 10% of boys aged 10-14 are not enrolled; for girls, the figure is 36%
(Sathar et al., 2003, Table 1). However, for countries with higher incomes and higher overall
attainment, girls are at parity with, or overtaking, boys: in Mexico, education levels are broadly
the same by sex; and 20-29 year old Ukrainian females have almost one year more schooling than
males.
There are also significant differences by urban/rural location and poverty status. For
example, in Egypt, enrollment rates for 15-19 year olds are 85% for the urban non-poor, 73% for
the rural non-poor, 72% for the urban poor, and only 65% for rural poor children (MENA, 2007,
Table 1.11). Illiteracy rates are almost 50% in poor, rural Upper Egypt compared to 31%
nationally (World Bank, 2004, Figure 1.4). For the Ukraine, children in rural areas have 0.4
years less schooling on average (Patrinos, 2008, Table 7). For Indonesia, school participation
rates are 10 percent lower in rural over urban areas; and the gap in participation between the
poorest and the richest quintiles is almost 30% (Filmer, 2008, Figure 1). These gaps also exist in
the earliest years of schooling: approximately half of all children in Indonesia in the richest
quintile participate in early childhood education; the proportion for those in the poorest quintile is
one-fifth (World Bank, 2006b). Similar disparities in early education enrollments are evident in
Kenya and Ghana (Kennedy and Haddad, 1994).

5

2.2 Defining school failure or inadequate education
From an economic perspective, the definition of 'school failure' or 'inadequate education' is clear:
it occurs whenever the economic benefits of education exceed the costs of attending school, i.e.
when the net present value of educational investment is positive. The specific level of education
associated with a positive net present value will vary from country to country. For example,
Belfield and Levin (2007) argue that, for the U.S., failure to graduate from high school represents
'inadequate education'. In the U.S., being a high school dropout results in significantly lower
income, higher unemployment, inferior health status, and higher welfare receipt and involvement
in criminal activity. By failing to graduate from high school, students in the U.S. are risking
significantly impaired lifetime economic well-being.
Low absolute levels of education may not be synonymous with inadequate education,
particularly in regions where life expectancy is relatively short. Important to the consideration of
'inadequate education' is whether individuals are constrained in the optimal amount of education
they can obtain. If individuals are unconstrained and can invest freely in education and other
activities, it is unlikely that they will have made sub-optimal investments from a private
perspective. Internationally, there is plausible evidence of substantial income constraints on
educational investments (see Filmer, 2008) such that families cannot borrow optimally. Citations
regarding education policies and the likelihood of sub-optimal investments for each of the
selected countries are listed in column 2 of Table 2. These citations are discussed below.
As shown in Tables 1AB, very few students complete secondary education. Given these
low absolute levels of education in the selected countries, high school graduation is not a
reasonable measure of school failure. Instead, it is more appropriate to consider investments that
would either ensure universal completion of primary education or augment existing levels of
attainment by one or two years.

6

The growth in average years of schooling over the last two decades (Table 1A) gives
some indication of feasible changes in educational attainment. Each country (except Pakistan)
has raised average educational attainment by at least one year over the period 1990-2000.
However, given the low rates of completion of primary schooling, it may be more appropriate to
focus on raising education levels for children at the bottom of the education distribution. For
example, a more efficient policy may be to seek to reduce the numbers of persons who do not
complete the first level of education by 20 percentage points (equivalent to the gain by Egypt,
Ghana, Kenya, and Mexico over the prior decades, see Table 1A). 3 For countries with higher
first-level completion rates, an alternative policy might be to raise the rate of completion of
secondary education by 10 percentage points (as for Mexico from 1980 to 2000). These changes
are considered below, as applicable for each country.

3

Others have argued – in the context of education systems across Africa – that free and universal primary
education is feasible (see Avenstrup et al., 2004).
7

3. Method for Calculating Costs of Inadequate Education
3.1 Taxonomy of benefits from education
There are many potential benefits from more education. These benefits are reaped by three
agencies: the private individual; government/taxpayers; and the broader society. Each agency
may gain because education influences a number of domains. For example, private individuals
gain because they obtain higher incomes; but taxpayers also gain because higher incomes mean
higher tax payments. Necessarily, it is the costs and benefits of education for each agency that
help explain investment decisions.
The primary beneficiary of education is of course the individual who experiences higher
incomes, wealth, and improved health status, as well as a set of intra-household benefits. For
income, the effect is assumed to be a direct skill effect (and not a signaling effect). The wealth
effect may arise because educated persons have higher returns on financial assets or avoid
poverty and debt. The health status effect may arise in part because of higher incomes, but there
is also a direct knowledge effect (e.g. on disease etiology). For fertility, education plays an
important role because: where females have more labor market options they have a lower demand
for children; education is associated with greater use of contraception; and staying in school
reduces the number of years available for child-rearing. But education affects sexual behaviors
more broadly; this in turn influences the spread of sexually-transmitted diseases (as discussed
below). Also, maternal education is likely to raise child health in two ways: it raises the
productivity of health inputs; and it reduces the costs of gathering information about healthy
behaviors (Barrera, 1990). Compelling international evidence is summarized in Hanmer (2003):
across ten studies of infant mortality, eight find a clear, statistically significant reduction in infant

8

mortality from mother’s education. 4 Finally, individuals gain from education through intrahousehold productivity gains, such as more efficient household management and better care of
children and their health. Offsetting these private advantages from education are the costs. These
costs have two main components: the opportunity cost of not working and the direct cost of fees
for education.
A second beneficiary of education is the government (taxpayer). As education boosts
incomes it increases tax payments and reduces reliance on government health, welfare, and social
support programs. As education reduces criminal activity the taxpayer saves on criminal justice
system expenditures. However, the government also incurs costs in public subsidies for
education. An important distinction in considering the government benefits from education is
between central and local government. Typically, central governments collect payroll taxes and
fund anti-poverty programs. However, they do not have the primary responsibility for funding
education (or supporting health systems); this is devolved to local governments. 5 Therefore,
there is a mismatch between the recipient of the benefits of education (central government) and
the agency responsible for funding education (primarily the local government).
Finally, it is useful to consider the social perspective on investments in education. This
social perspective values all the benefits of education regardless of which agent is the beneficiary.
Therefore, the social benefit includes the private benefits and the fiscal benefits (excluding
transfers). It counts all the costs of education, both private fees and public subsidies. In addition,
a social perspective would count the gains to all citizens when crime rates are lower; these gains
4

The health status to education relationship is not conclusive, in part because the effects of education
appear to vary by amount of education. Grignon (2007) reports on the variation in the returns to education
on health status across different countries: modelling a relationship where educational effects differ after
completion of primary school, the effects of education are almost zero beyond this attainment level.
Moreover, both Behrman and Wolfe (1987) and Streatfield et al. (1990) find that knowledge of the benefits
of health is more important than education per se even as the two are strongly positively correlated. And
the education–health relationship is not always found. Wang (2002) shows that, in pair-wise correlations,
education and child mortality are strongly correlated. But, the effect is mediated by the collinearity
between income and education such that the correlation is not statistically significant in multivariate
estimation.
5
For example, In the Ukraine, local government spending is 30% of total government spending, but it bears
a much higher fraction for education (61%) and health (77%).
9

include savings from being a victim of crime and reduced costs of crime avoidance. The social
perspective also counts productivity externalities, i.e. improvements in economic competitiveness
that arise when the workforce has more human capital. Lastly, the social perspective also counts
the social value of health, i.e. the economic benefits from reductions in infectious diseases or
epidemics (such as HIV/AIDS).
Indeed, one domain where educational investments may be powerful for individuals, the
taxpayer, and society is in reducing HIV/AIDS prevalence. AIDS prevalence rates vary
significantly, with extremely high rates in some African countries. 6 AIDS prevalence is strongly
related to education levels: using UNAIDS data for 84 countries, Lakhanpal and Ram (2008)
estimate that a ten percent increase in mean schooling (equivalent to one-half year) reduces HIV
prevalence (% of adult population age 15-49 with HIV) by 12-17%. And the economic costs of
HIV/AIDS, particularly in high-prevalence countries, are stark. HIV/AIDS infection destroys
human capital formation and work productivity among young adults; it reduces savings as
families pay for medicines; and it also dramatically cuts schooling investments for children in
families with HIV-positive adults (as well as creating large cohorts of orphans). 7 The costs of
HIV/AIDS is borne by the entire family: in Kenya, Yamano and Jayne (2005) find that parental
HIV/AIDS significantly reduces school attendance for girls – caring for sick parents – and boys –
assuming household and income-generating responsibilities (see also Mishra et al., 2007). The
total costs of HIV/AIDS include not only the loss of life, but also the fiscal costs of prevention
and treatment. In an economic evaluation in urban and rural Kenya, Forsythe et al. (2002) report
significant costs of counseling and testing centers for HIV/AIDS. Costs were such that many
families would not use the service if it was not publicly-supported. Also, HIV-positive patients

6

In Kenya the rate is at least 15% of persons aged 15-49 (Robalino et al., 2002a). In contrast, for the
Ukraine, it is 0.25% of persons aged 15-49 (World Bank, 2007), but it is 0.7% of those aged 20-24.
According to World Health Organization data, the numbers needing anti-retroviral treatments in 2006 were:
9,000 in Chile; <1,000 in Egypt; 20,000 in the Ukraine; 12,000 in Pakistan; 25,000 in Indonesia; 46,000 in
Mexico; 63,000 in Ghana; and 290,000 in Kenya (Global HIV/AIDS online database at www.who.org).
7
However, orphanhood may not reduce attainment according to research by Ainsworth and Filmer (2006).
10

may have complications from other diseases, ratcheting up health care costs. 8 A series of models
have examined the consequences for economic growth and although these economic models vary
widely in their predictions about economic losses, they are consistent in identifying the costs of
AIDS as substantial. 9 Direct evidence on the costs of HIV/AIDS for some of the selected
countries is available and is incorporated below. 10
This taxonomy (private, fiscal, and social) is distinct from other classifications of the
economic benefits of education in several dimensions. First, the rate of return to education is
strictly calculated from the present value costs and benefits accrued to each agent (private, fiscal,
or social). By custom, the term 'rate of return to education' is often applied to the coefficient on
years of schooling from a Mincerian earnings function. In this taxonomy, such a coefficient is
called the earning premium because it may not approximate to the rate of return to education once
costs and, importantly, other benefits are accounted for. Second, the term 'social' in this
taxonomy includes all the benefits that might accrue to society. Other studies refer to the social
rate of return as the private rate of return minus the public costs of providing the education.
(Typically, studies report this social rate as a few percentage points below the private rate).
However, this reference is overly narrow in that it does not account for the other social benefits
from education. Finally, this taxonomy is more detailed than the term 'non-market' outcomes
from schooling (Behrman and Stacey, 1997; Wolfe and Zuvekas, 1997). This term may include
benefits that accrue to government in the former of lower expenditures or society in the form of
productivity externalities; it may also include benefits that can be monetized using shadow prices.
8

In a microeconomic study of patient case management in Sudan, El-Sony et al. (2006) report that HIVpositive patients with tuberculosis are significantly more expensive than HIV-negative patients with
tuberculosis.
9
As reviewed in Bell et al. (2006) and Robalino et al. (2002a), these studies find: if HIV prevalence rises
from zero to 15-20% in sub-Saharan Africa, per capita income falls by 30-40%; if HIV prevalence rises by
1%, per capita income falls by 0.59%; and an overall estimate for countries where prevalence rates exceed
5% is 0.5% to 1.5% per year in per capita GDP.
10
Nevertheless, there is an important caveat: the urgent imperative is to reduce HIV rates in the immediate
term, whereas educational investments are a long-term strategy for reducing prevalence. Alternative
policies – health interventions – may therefore be more cost-effective at reducing HIV prevalence in and of
itself. Nevertheless, the above evidence suggests that the economic benefits of education in reducing
HIV/AIDS prevalence may still be significant.
11

Finally, we note one important implicit assumption of this cost-benefit method: it
assumes that each dollar of savings for each agency is valued equally. Yet, if society places a
higher value on reducing poverty over raising average income levels, then simple comparisons of
costs and benefits may not be appropriate.
The matrix of agencies and benefits from education are summarized in Box 1 (Belfield
and Levin, 2007; Behrman and Stacey, 1997). This matrix shows how the benefits accrue to
different agencies, as well as how each benefit affects multiple agencies. The matrix allows us to
consider a modular approach where research evidence on each of the items (1)-(12) is collected
for any country or region.

3.2 General Statement of Method
The method for calculating the costs of school failure involves three stages (Belfield and Levin,
2007). These are outlined in Box 2.
First, it is necessary to specify an appropriate threshold level of education that constitutes
success or failure. As reported above in Section 2, an appropriate level for the selected countries
may be either one additional year of attainment or universal completion of primary (or secondary)
school. 11 Given this threshold it is necessary to count the numbers of persons who fail to reach
that threshold for a given age cohort and to identify those persons who might feasibly reach the
appropriate level of education. A further consideration is whether this increase in education leads
to a further upgrading of education levels. For example, new high school graduates might then
enroll in college.
Second, the lifetime ‘causal impact’ of education on each of the benefits listed in Box 1
must be identified. This identification is determined using the best available research evidence

11

School quality should also be considered. Behrman et al. (2008) argue that because children are already
enrolled in school, the opportunity cost of improving school quality is zero. However, given the very low
levels of attainment in developing countries (as well as equity considerations) the primary concern is access
to school; improving school quality would of course benefit those who already enroll, and these children
are disproportionately from wealthier families.
12

for each country, appraised according to method. To estimate the impact of education on each
domain, we review a wide range of literature. Reflecting differences in education systems, labor
markets, and social systems, we only draw on literature specific to each country. 12 As shown in
Tables 3 and 4, there are a significant number of high quality studies that relate education to each
outcome. As an iterative process, the research evidence may be continuously improved. That is,
the evidence would be drawn from: studies conducted most recently; studies that are specific to
localities or disaggregated by population characteristics; and from studies that use high-quality
research methods. 13
As most of the research employs controlled observational empirical methods, rather than
experimental methods, it is not possible to identify causality. Indeed, causality from education to
any of the benefits is often difficult to establish given individuals’ endogenous choices of
schooling. However, at least for the education–earnings relationship, there is sufficient evidence
to conclude that there is causality (Rouse, 2007). The earnings premiums for a year of additional
schooling for the selected countries are reported in Tables 5A-E. For each equation the earnings
premium is positive and statistically significant, although there are variations by locality and level
of education. Moreover, these premiums do not typically adjust for labor market participation
rates by education levels. 14

12

Our search strategy for review for each country includes: review of the World Bank database ('data and
statistics', 'publications and reports', and 'development topics'); search of Web of Science literature from
1995-2008; direct review of journals Education Economics, Economics of Education Review, World Bank
Economic Review, as well as IMF working papers (2005-2008).
13
A more detailed approach would involve estimation of these relationships directly using country-specific
datasets. For the selected countries, household survey data do exist for: Kenya Demographic and Health
Survey (2003); Ghana Living Standards Survey (2003); Pakistan Integrated Household Surveys (2001);
National Income and Expenditure Household Survey (ENIGH, 2002); and Indonesia SUSENAS National
Socioeconomic Survey (2003). Further research is necessary to examine these datasets.
14
Earnings premiums, conditional on employment, do not significantly vary by sex. For Chile, male
earnings premiums are 12.1% versus 13.2% for females; for Ghana, the respective figures are 9.3% and
10.6%; and for Mexico, 14.1% and 15% (see Tables 5AE below). However, female labor market
participation rates are considerably below male rates. Typically, private earnings premiums for primary
school are higher than for secondary school or higher education (as in Indonesia and Mexico). However, in
some cases the return to higher education is significantly above that of other education levels because
access to university is restricted. For example, earnings premiums for secondary school in Chile are 12.9%
13

The third stage is to calculate the monetary benefits or economic/cost consequences from
each educational impact for each population cohort. In the case of income gains, these cost
consequences are straightforward, but the economic consequences of other benefits may be
harder to identify. For example, it is necessary to place an economic value on gains in health or
reductions in crime, yet these typically do not have observable prices. 15 Often it is necessary to
rely on government budgetary spending as an indicator of the economic consequences of poor
health status or high crime.
Where cost data are not available we apply the method described in Wolfe and Zuvekas
(1997) and first elaborated in Haveman and Wolfe (1984). In equilibrium, families should
accumulate education such that the marginal utility divided by the price equals the marginal
utility divided by the price of other inputs into the utility function. One of these inputs is
education, the price of which is typically unknown. Often, one of the other inputs is income, the
price of which serves as the numeraire. Therefore, the equilibrium condition is:
(1) MUeducation/Priceeducation = MUincome/$1
Equation (1) can be rearranged such that:
(2) Priceeducation = MUeducation/ MUincome
With information on the marginal utilities (proxied by coefficients from regression equations), it
is therefore possible to calculate the economic value of education. Where data are available, we
apply this Haveman–Wolfe (HW) translation below to allow for a fuller accounting of the
benefits of education.
Finally, the fourth stage is to aggregate these benefits to provide a full assessment of the
gross costs of school failure. These benefits should be expressed in present values and so can be
versus 20.7% for higher education; for Pakistan, the respective figures are 13.7% and 31.2% (all data from
Psacharopoulos and Patrinos, 2004).
15
One measure of costs is the amount that private individuals spend as a proportion of their budgets; but
this is problematic because higher incomes allow families to consume more health or less crime. The only
shadow price we could identify for family valuations of child health is from Dickie (2005). Using U.S.
data, families report a willingness-to-pay to avoid one school day lost to health of $100-$150 (1997
dollars). Approximately, therefore, one lost school day equates to one lost day of work.
14

compared with any additional educational subsidies. This comparison will yield the net costs of
school failure. Below we do not calculate the costs of educational subsidies and so the figures
presented below are the gross costs of school failure. 16
This method has a number of benefits, not least in terms of conceptual simplicity, for
formulating educational policies across countries. It estimates the effects for individuals who
must make decisions about educational investments. It illuminates the relative importance of
education across the domains of life. It highlights which assumptions are the most sensitive for
policy. Perhaps most important is the utility in comparing the economic consequences of school
failure with the burden of funding for education. Clearly, determination of the burden of funding
for education is a key policy issue, but this burden should in part reflect the benefits principle, i.e.
agencies should fund education to the extent to which they benefit from it. 17 This analysis helps
shed light on the optimal burden of funding.

3.3 Methodological Issues
Although straightforward in principle, the method of calculating the costs of school failure is
challenging in practice. The key sensitivity issues are itemized in Box 2, section (4).
First, it is important to fully account for the benefits of education (particularly when
calculating a social rate of return). Some influences that might be anticipated from increasing
levels of education are omitted in this analysis. These are itemized in Box 3. These omissions
may be justified on the grounds that the resulting 'costs of school failure' will be conservatively
estimated.
We exclude any environmental benefits from additional attainment; yet, for Mexico
Dasgupta et al. (2000) find levels of human capital to be positively associated with compliance

16

The costs of educational subsidies would require identification of successful interventions that would
raise attainment. Identifying such interventions is a far from straightforward task.
17
The burden of funding raises many other important issues. Few of the selected countries run budget
surpluses, such that public funding can be directly secured either from tax revenues or from borrowing at
current interest rates.
15

with environmental protections. We do not include the influence of education on remittances to
families. These are an important way for families to avoid poverty, but the effect of education is
hard to identify because education is positively correlated with migration decisions which in turn
induce remittances. 18
We also do not fully consider issues related to family formation, household size, and
intra-household externalities. Specifically, education is associated with smaller family size; we
do not place a positive or negative value on that change (although we do count the impact on
child quality from mother's education and the implications of better fertility management for
government health spending). Intra-household externalities may be significant, particularly
across generations: for Egypt, for example, Wahba (2006) finds that parental education is
strongly negatively associated with child labor rates. The economic values of these more subtle
linkages are not easy to calculate or calculate shadow prices for, however.
Another separate area where education may play an important role is in relation to civic
order. Education has been found to be positively correlated with civic engagement and this may
contribute to good government. However, the economic value of democracy has not been found
to be strong (even as political stability appears to raise economic growth, McMahon, 1998). 19 So,
this benefit is not counted here. Finally, education has a demonstrated positive effect on life
expectancy, but this is only partially incorporated into the analysis below. That is, we assume
education will yield additional years of life (and so additional economic activity) and will reduce
child mortality rates; but we do not include a measure of the value of life per se.

18

Also, even Mexico, which has by far the largest absolute value of international remittances across Latin
America, generates less than 5% of GDP through such remittances (Acosta et al., 2008). Adams (2006)
finds that, intranationally, families that remit money do not have higher incomes than families that do not
remit. And Taylor and Yunez-Naude (2000) report only small effects of education on remittances in
Mexico.
19
Such externalities are hard to identify because they appear to be very sensitive to institutional
frameworks and power structures. For cooperative economic arrangements involving NGOs in Ghana, see
Botchway (2001). On peer learning in regard to micro-credit financing in Mexico, see Barboza and Baretto
(2006). Olken (2006) investigates corruption in rice aid programs in Indonesia; although corruption rates
are high (at least at 18% of total aid), education levels do not appear to influence corruption rates.
16

Second, the evidence is not always conclusive that education is beneficial.
Macroeconomic studies typically find much smaller gains from education compared to
microeconomic studies; the former find factor accumulation to be a more potent influence on
economic growth than productivity gains (on evidence for Egypt, see Abu-Qarn and Abu-Bader,
2007; internationally, Pritchett (2006) estimates productivity externalities from education are
zero). The discrepancy between these results may arise because of general equilibrium effects:
education may be privately beneficial, but at the expense of other workers who do not have
credentials. (It might alternatively be a result of aggregation bias). For example, Duflo (2006)
finds that a large-scale expansion in education in Indonesia did cause the wage rate to fall, in part
because capital did not expand. It also caused a large increase in participation in the formal labor
market. A 10% increase in the primary school graduation rate caused the wages of older cohorts
to fall by 4-10% but it also increased their labor market participation by 4-7%. If the expansion
of education is large-scale, wages may indeed fall.
However, these general equilibrium effects may not be strong. Educational changes take
a long time to permeate the labor market (as some students go to college) and even then the new
entrants are a flow being added to a very large stock (of about 30 times the size). Moreover,
education influences migration, such that new graduates may move to alternative labor markets to
get jobs (the impact of education on migration is also not considered here: the motivations for
migration are complex and educational influences are unclear, Mansuri, 2006). Finally, intensive
investigation for the U.S. (and other western countries) has found that skill-biased technical
change significantly offsets labor supply effects; the long run correlation between aggregate skills
and wages is therefore unclear. Our approach is to use the best available microeconomic research
evidence on the impacts of education but recognizing that, if substantial expansions in education
are contemplated, the marginal returns may be lower than our average estimates.
A third challenge is that children's time in school has a high opportunity cost, particularly
in developing countries. Specifically, many children are not in school because they must work to
17

support the family and ensure that household income is above subsistence; this is especially
salient for countries where secondary school enrollment rates are low. For children, hours
worked in the labor force do reduce attainment (perhaps by as much as two years of attainment,
for Mexico, see Binder and Scrogin, 1999; for Ghana, see Ray, 2002). However, a significant
proportion of child labor is either illegal, compromises child development, or is not monetarily
compensated. 20 Also, the majority of child who work are also in school. 21 Moreover, free
schooling or subsidies may reduce child labor (as found in studies of conditional cash transfer
programs, such as Progresa in Mexico, Bando et al., 2005). If schooling includes free meals, it
may reduce poverty also. Here, the assumption is that child time out of school – at least for
elementary school children – has no opportunity cost. 22
Fourth, the economic consequences of education will depend on how informal labor
market activity is valued. In developing economies, with large agricultural sectors, it is harder to
measure employment status and to account for the value of work done by all members of a
household. 23 Increasing education may lead to greater participation in the formal labor market
but not necessarily an overall improvement in family well-being (e.g. if child care is transferred
to other family members). This impact of education may be particularly strong in countries
where female labor force participation rates are currently low. 24 The assumption here is that
education is equally beneficial in non-market settings as in the labor market. That is, education
changes the opportunity cost of working versus not working so that a college-educated nonworker must have the same economic benefits as a college-educated worker. (As we show below
for the case studies, consumption data indicate that educational impacts are at least 75% as strong

20

Binder and Scrogin (1999) report wage rates for children in Mexico that are one-third of parental wages.
For rural Egypt, Wahba (2006) estimates 19% of children work, but over half of them are also in school.
22
This assumption is motivated by the following: child labor is illegal, raises only a small amount of family
income, displaces in part child leisure, and is often a consequence of a lack of availability of schooling.
23
For example, in Pakistan only 27% of adults are in wage employment, with 8% self-employed, 13%
agricultural workers, and 52% out of the labor force (Kingdon and Soederbom, 2007).
24
For the selected countries, female rates of labor market participation are: in Egypt, 31%; in Indonesia,
41%; in Chile, 35%; and in Mexico, 35% (MENA, 2007, Table 2.9).
21

18

in rural or agrarian areas as they are in urban areas). Under this assumption it is not necessary to
incorporate changes in labor market participation in the overall returns. However, one advantage
of education in raising labor market participation rates is that individuals do pay more in taxes; in
this respect education yields fiscal gains.
Fifth, a critical parameter in calculating the benefits of education is the discount rate, i.e.
the rate at which future benefits from education should be valued. In their analysis for the U.S.,
Moore et al. (2003) argue for a 3.5% discount rate for public investments. However, this rate is
almost certainly too low for countries with lower life expectancies, greater economic volatility,
and more unstable governments. Yet, it is possible to avoid the use of a discount rate if the
simulation is simply described as: the current annual cost of school failure for all those persons
who are not adequately educated.
Finally, data limitations may be such that it is hard to accurately identify the benefits of
education. Data for some of the domains of education or for costs may not be available.
Typically, information is only available on average cost even though marginal cost is the more
relevant value. Regional government budgets are also not easily accessible. 25 Sample surveys in
these countries may suffer from greater selection bias or educational mismeasurement
(particularly in regions with low literacy rates); also school quality may vary significantly
(Behrman and Birdsall, 1993). In addition, in many developing countries with poorly functioning
public education systems, families may enroll their children in private tutoring schools (as well as
public school). This tutoring is not typically measured in educational datasets and its omission
may lead to an upward bias in the earnings premium for education.

25

Also, information on the progressivity of the tax code is needed. If education raises incomes and makes
persons liable at a higher tax rate, then the fiscal impacts of education are likely to be understated. As
found by Gong and van Soest (2002) for Mexico, the fiscal impacts of education on incomes taxes are
somewhat muted by the proportionality of the tax rate.
19

In terms of the benefits of education, data limitations are particularly evident in the
domain of criminal activity. 26 As noted by Soares (2004), not only have there been few
investigations into the causes and costs of crime in developing economies, perhaps in part
because there is likely to be a significant bias from misreporting of crime. Indeed, from empirical
investigation of 45 countries, Soares (2004) finds that the countries with higher incomes are much
more likely to report crimes. However, education still has a beneficial impact on crime: if a
country increases its primary school enrollment by 10%, both theft and contact crimes would fall
by 30% (Soares, 2004, Table 6). In a separate study, Soares (2006) has calculated the costs of
crimes of violence across 73 countries. These costs are expressed: as the marginal willingness to
pay of an 18-year old individual; as the lifetime aggregate social value across the population; and
as a proportion of GDP. However, country-specific results are only available for three of the
selected countries: Chile, Mexico, and the Ukraine. These results are incorporated below. For
the remaining five countries, even applying the lowest estimates of the costs of violence yields a
significant economic magnitude.
In terms of the cost consequences, the largest data uncertainty relates to government
financing and fiscal implications of education. Specifically, although there is information on total
government expenditures as a proportion of GDP, there is limited information on who bears the
tax burden and on whether marginal and average tax rates differ significantly. Also unavailable is
information on tax avoidance and on the deadweight loss of collecting taxes. Absent more
detailed information on these parameters, the working assumption below is that taxes are paid
proportionately with income. (For developing economies relying on excise taxes, this assumption
may be reasonable).
These data limitations mean that our analysis is very preliminary. One possible response
to a lack of data availability and methodological challenges is to draw on evidence from other
countries. Indeed, given the sizeable costs of school failure in the U.S. (Belfield and Levin,
26

Hence, there are no entries for crime in Tables 3 and 4 of the literature review.
20

2007), it might be anticipated that the costs would be even greater for countries with low
education levels. For example, low-income countries tend to have higher earnings premiums
from schooling than rich countries (because the gains from basic literacy are greater than the
gains from college, see Psacharopoulos and Patrinos, 2004).
However, there are significant economic, social, and organizational differences across
countries; the presumption of high returns may not be valid. 27 Education may have less influence
on economic well-being in countries with more informal labor markets or those with high
agricultural employment. As well, labor markets in developing countries may not be sufficiently
flexible in rewarding skills. This is especially likely in former Soviet states and economies with
large public administrations. In Egypt, for example, government employment as a percentage of
total employment is high at 16%; but government wages as a percentage of GDP are not
proportionate at only 4% (MENA, 2007, Figure 2.1). It may be the case that educated workers
accept stable government jobs which pay relatively little. If so, cross-sectional estimates of the
return to education will fail to account for the benefit of job stability. In contrast, the returns
might be greater in developing economies where larger families living in single dwellings may
generate greater intra-household externalities.
Even if the overall costs of school failure might be comparable across countries, the
returns may vary across agents. Specifically, the fiscal returns may be lower in developing
countries if government spending as a fraction of GDP is lower. For example, without
comprehensive healthcare coverage, private families bear the burden of ill health. So, Baeza and
Packard (2006, Table 2.1) tabulate total health expenditures as a percent of GDP at 7.7% for
high-income countries, 5.8% for mid-income countries, and 4.7% for low-income countries.
However, differences in private spending expenditures on health as a fraction of total health
expenditures are compressed (relative to income differences): they are 30% for high-income
27

Nevertheless, international evidence may be useful for estimating key relationships. For example, in
their multi-country study, Boyle et al. (2006) estimate that maternal education has a very strong effect on
child health.
21

countries, 38% for mid-income countries, and 48% for low-income countries. 28 So, although
high-income countries spend more on health and more of that spending is mediated through
public provision, these patterns are not significantly discrepant from those in low-income
countries. Yet, studies have found that the returns to health from education vary significantly
depending on the absolute levels of education in the country (Grignon, 2007). Moreover, in lessdeveloped economies ill health is more likely to include infections that lead to epidemics (such as
HIV); in this case health improvements are likely to yield significant social benefits.
Overall, there are many factors in relation to a country's labor market, health status,
family characteristics, and role of government, that will affect the costs of school failure. Hence,
a country-by-country analysis of the costs of school failure appears to be necessary.

4. Indonesia
4.1 Education levels
Across Indonesia, six of ten adults are literate and over one-third have not completed primary
schooling; average attainment of the adult population is under five years (Tables 1AB).
According to World Bank (2006b) data, 16% of the population (35 million people) live below the
national poverty line; many of these persons lack basic literacy skills. However, education levels
have risen signficantly over the last two decades and Indonesia has undertaken an expansion of
education through construction of new schools. 29 Ito (2006, Table 1) reports that the expansion
of schooling and increase in the number of teachers in Indonesia (SD INPRES) raised educational
28

Moreover, private spending on health care is quite small as a proportion of total annual consumption (less
than 5%), and it is not substantially higher in developing Latin American countries (Baeza and Packard,
2006, ES2). Chile and Mexico, for example, fund health provision using payroll and general taxes, with
private spending about one-quarter of the total in Chile and one-half the total in Mexico (Baeza and
Packard, 2006, Table 1.1). Total government spending in the Ukraine is 44% of GDP (2005 data), with
health spending 4% and social protection and assistance 20% of GDP (World Bank, 2006).
29
Per-child annual spending on primary education is approximately $230 (2004 dollars, World Bank,
2004b).
22

attainment by 0.12 years (see also Duflo, 2001). This significant increase in attainment for
younger cohorts indicates the possibility of increasing education levels in Indonesia. Moreover,
public schools appear to out-perform private schools in Indonesia (Newhouse and Beegle, 2006),
suggestive of the importance of constraints on families in their abilities to afford more education.

4.2 The benefits from education
As shown in Table 5, years of attainment are positively correlated with attainment in Indonesia.
The most precisely calibrated estimate of earnings gains is from Duflo (2001): based on a
comparison of wages before and after an expansion of school construction, earnings premiums
are approximately 7%-11%. Earlier studies found positive earnings premiums from additional
education of even larger magnitude. McMahon and Boediono (1992) found high social rates of
return from greater investments in junior secondary general education, as well as senior
secondary general and vocational education (see also Cann, 1982). Skoufias and Suryahadi
(2002) survey earnings premiums over the period 1986-98 and find that younger workers are
benefiting the most from education with greater participation in the labor market. This suggests
that earnings premiums for education are likely trending upwards even as the economy develops
with greater formalization of the labor market.
Education also raises labor market participation. Gertler and Gruber (2002) report a very
strong correlation between completing primary school and secondary school and hours worked by
the head of the household. There is also evidence that increasing education levels will generate
externalities in terms of economic growth. In Indonesia, Todo and Miyamoto (2006) find that the
effect of research and development from foreign firms on domestic Total Factor Productivity is
"positive, statistically significant, and large" for enterprises with high skill levels.
Health benefits from education are also evident and potentially these gains in improved
health status may outweigh those from increased earnings. In Indonesia, one-quarter of children
under five are considered undernourished; infant mortality in poor districts is high, at 82 per

23

1,000 births; across the country, the rate is 41 per 1,000 (World Bank, 2006b). Poor health and
poverty are of course strongly correlated. For adults, ill health has a strong impact on
consumption, reducing it by 20% when activities of daily living are constrained (Gertler and
Gruber, 2002).
For rural Indonesia, Block (2007) finds that education has a strongly positive impact on
nutritional status. 30 Applying the HW translation, the value of one year of schooling is worth just
under 5% of annual income. Much larger effects are reported by Skoufias (1999): applying the
HW translation, having a mother who is educated to junior high has an equivalent effect on rural
infant boys' weight-for-height as a 50% increase in per capita household expenditures (with
similar impacts for girls and older children). In a model of intra-household bargaining, Park
(2007) estimates that maternal education has a stronger effect on child nutritional status than on
child education (primarily because the mother has greater responsibility for nutrition relative to
education).
The effect of education on child mortality is very large: Mellington and Cameron (1999)
report that one additional year of primary schooling by the mother is associated with a reduction
in child mortality of 2.2 percentage points. However, the relationship between education and
fertility is complex: Angeles et al. (2005) find that its effects depend on whether an individual is
married or not. This impact is therefore excluded in the economic analysis below.
4.3 The costs of inadequate education
Several economic analyses of inadequate education have been conducted for Indonesia. Arze del
Granado et al. (2007) calculate a social rate of return (in the narrow sense), finding significant
earnings premia net of costs. However, the returns appear lowest for primary school (4%),
compared to junior secondary (25%), and secondary (28%) school. A similar social rate is

30

Miller et al. (2006) do not find strong impacts of human capital on health when social capital is
controlled for.
24

calculated by Duflo (2001) based on investments in school construction. Although these
investment take a long time to be recouped, Duflo (2001) estimates an internal rate of return of
8.8%-12%, depending on the growth rate of GDP. Finally, World Bank (2006b) conducted a
cost-benefit analysis of early childhood education, focusing on both the educational benefits
(higher enrollments and lower grade repetition) and on the increase in earnings. Across children,
the predicted benefit-cost ratio of investing in early education is 6.01, rising to 6.93 for children
from the poorest expenditure quintile. This calculation – as do the other two – excluded benefits
such as nutrition and health, as well as intra-family externalities; it was also specific to a
particular intervention.
Given the high rate of failure to complete primary school, this is adopted as the measure
of school failure. Assuming that two additional years of school are required to complete primary
school for the one-third who currently do not, this would mean an increase in the stock of human
capital of 0.66 years across the entire population.
The gross annual fiscal costs of school failure are calculated as follows. The earnings
gain is 14% of per capita income; and the taxes paid are 19% of this amount (calcuated as Gross
Government Expenditure divided by Gross Domestic Product, see Table 6). The government
health savings are five percent of 2.3% of per capita income (spending patterns calculated from
Baeza and Packard, 2006). The government criminal justice system costs are estimated at 0.5%
of per capita income (the developing economy average from Soares, 2006). 31 Thus, for each
person who fails to complete primary school, the gross fiscal cost is 3.3% of per capita income;
note that this is an annual measure of what is being lost by the taxpayer from low education
levels. Given that one-third of persons do not complete primary school, the annual gross fiscal
cost from school failure is 1.1% of gross domestic product (27.3 millions rupiah). Note that this
value does not count the economic benefits in terms of externalities from improved health and
31

Even for the sample of Western European economies, with homicide rates of 4 per 100,000, the welfare
costs of violence are: 0.1 expected years of life lost; with a marginal willingness to pay of 12% of per
capita GDP; and a social present value of 7% of GDP (Soares, 2006, Table 1).
25

family nutrition; nor does it factor in the enormous private (and social) losses from high child
mortality rates.

5. Ghana
5.1 Education levels
As shown in Tables 1AB, education levels in Ghana are relatively low: approximately half of the
adult (aged 25+) population has not completed primary school; over 40% of adults are not fully
literate; and adults have on average only four years of education. However, education levels have
risen considerably since 1980, when average attainment was less than 2.5 years.
There is strong evidence that individual families in Ghana face severe constraints when
deciding on educational investments. Using micro-survey data, Tansel (1997) finds parental
education strongly influences child educational attainment, as do Glick and Sahn (2000). In
addition, Tansel’s (1997) analysis of how income declines in Ghana in the 1990s had a strongly
negative impact on child attainment is indicative of wealth constraints. Lavy (1996) has found
that families do consider the costs of schooling across childhood when making decisions about
enrollment. As for other developing economies, these constraints appear to operate more strongly
for girls than for boys.

5.2 The benefits from education
There is evidence on basic earnings premiums from education in Ghana: workers with one
additional year of attainment earn 7-9% more (see Tables 3 and 5). This premium is also found
by Teal (2000) and Jones (2001) in the manufacturing sector, although Teal (2000) reports that
Ghanaian wage rates have been very volatile in recent decades. Jolliffe (1998, 2004) finds that
these premiums are strongest for off-farm income, i.e. informal or agricultural workers gain less
from education although the returns are still positive. This difference may in part arise because of

26

how education serves as a signal of productivity in the formal labor market in Ghana (Strobl,
2004). It may also arise because more educated workers take greater advantage of on-the-job
training, raising earnings further (as developed in Frazer's (2006) apprenticeship model for
Ghana).
As well, education also raises labor market participation rates, with this effect also
stronger in non-farm settings. Given this disparity, education induces workers to shift toward
working in the formal labor market: as found by Abdulai and Delgado (1999), "human capital…
is essential in increasing nonfarm earnings and time allocation of rural families and to diversify
the rural economy out of agriculture… a 10% increase in years of schooling increased women's
labor supply to nonfarm activities by 6.6%, compared to 3.2% for men." Greater participation in
the formal labor market is associated with increased tax payments reinforcing the economic
benefits to the government.
There is also evidence for Ghana that human capital generates productivity externalities.
Using micro-data, Barr (2000) finds that more human capital is associated with higher
productivity of capital and greater productivity through business networks. (However, because of
multicollinearity, this externality cannot be calculated precisely). Where families work together
informally, intra-household externalities may equate to intra-workplace externalities. For family
enterprises in Ghana Vijverberg (1995) found that the entrepreneur’s educational attainment
raises income by an amount close to that of employed workers and that the educational attainment
of the entrepreneur's family members significantly increased income for the enterprise.
The personal benefits of education include improvements in health status, reductions in
the rate of HIV/AIDS prevalence, fertility, intra-household transfers, as well as long-term
economic well-being (see Table 4). As noted above, research on the link between education and
crime is sparse, limited to work by Soares (2006). Also, research on the fertility effects of

27

education for Ghana does not show strong impacts, except on abortion rates (Ahiadeke, 2001). 32
Therefore, our focus is on health effects, measured using calorie counts, and HIV/AIDS.
There is evidence for Ghana that education reduces long-term poverty and improves
health status. Using the Ghana Household Budget Survey, Kyereme and Thorbecke (1991, 1987)
find that education independently influences household calorie gaps, as do other correlates such
as income and fertility patterns. Using the Haveman–Wolfe translation on Kyereme and
Thorbecke's (1991) results, completing primary school has an impact on health (calorie gaps) of
equivalent size as a 40% increase in income. Schultz (1999) also reports a very strong positive
association between attainment, income, and body-mass index for Ghana. Similarly, Higgins and
Alderman (1997) find a strong positive impact of primary, secondary and higher education on
nutrition (BMI) in Ghana. Applying the Haveman–Wolfe translation, completing primary school
raises Body-Mass Index by an amount equivalent to an increase in income of approximately
40%. 33 Finally, Kennedy and Haddad (1994) calculate the probability that a Ghanaian child is
malnourished. Applying the Haveman–Wolfe translation, any schooling by the mother reduces
the probability of malnutrition to an extent equivalent to a 29% increase in per capita income.
5.3 The costs of inadequate education
Given existing education levels, school failure in Ghana is considered as failure to graduate from
primary school. This failure means lower incomes and labor market participation and worse
health status (including HIV/AIDS incidence).
Income gains from completion of primary school are approximately 14% (assuming two
years to complete primary school). There is also an induced switch toward employment in the
formal labor market; offsetting this is the lower return to work in the non-farm sector. There is
32

As found for other countries, education does influence fertility, but the relationship is subtle. For Ghana,
Benefo and Schultz (1996) found that child mortality was an exogenous shock to families, but that fertility
rates were sensitive to this shock. More educated females were found to be more sensitive, but the effect
for Ghana was not substantively strong.
33
Again, we do not compare educational effects with direct health interventions (as the latter have been
found to be very effective in Ghana, see Lavy et al., 1996).
28

also a productivity externality of almost equivalent size to the earnings premium. With an
average tax rate of 31% on incomes (Table 6), per capita fiscal gains are likely to be 8.7%. In
addition, the substantial gains in health status are worth 1.1% in per capita incomes and the fiscal
savings in crime are 0.5%. Thus, the gross annual fiscal cost of failing to ensure primary school
completion is 9.3% of per capita income. Given that 46% of the population has not completed
primary school, the per capita fiscal effect is 4.3% or per capita income of US$21. Note that this
is almost certainly an underestimate because it does not include the costs of HIV/AIDS
(Lakhanpal and Ram, 2008).

6. Kenya
6.1 Education levels
Education levels in Kenya are shown in Table 1AB: one-third of children have not completed
primary school and the average adult has four years of schooling. Moreover, Kenya’s education
system has suffered shocks to enrollment in recent decades. As described by Bedi et al. (2004),
investment was high in the 25 years after independence in 1963, but that enrollments in primary
school actually fell in the late 1980s. A number of factors are involved, including: rising school
fees; a lack of school supply; and the spread of HIV/AIDS. School failure rates may therefore be
extremely high.
Research evidence suggests that families are constrained in their educational investments.
Kabubo-Mariara and Mwabu (2007) report high sensitivity of enrollment to incomes and to
family characteristics. Evidence on price sensitivity to participation is evident from a study of
child care for primary school children by Lokshin et al. (2004) in which high costs of child care
are found to discourage mothers from participating in market work. Educational subsidies may
therefore play an important role in allowing mothers to work. Families also appear to be sensitive

29

to small subsidies: for example, Ito (2006, Table 1) reports that free school meals in Kenya raised
the probability of schooling by 30 percentage points. Thus, public funding may encourage
families to invest in schooling.

6.2 The benefits from education
Even as school quality and access are constrained, there are positive returns to investments in
education in Kenya (see Table 5). These returns – at 16% – appear to be higher than for most
other countries. The returns may include better access to high-skilled jobs: more educated
workers in Kenya get more training, and this has a positive impact on earnings (de Beyer, 1990).
However, from data on manufacturing employees in Kenya over the period 1993-2001, Soderman
et al. (2005) find that the rate of return to education in Kenya has been falling. (No evidence on
the effects of labor market participation were found).
Long-term indicators of well-being are positively associated with education, which in
turn reduces the likelihood of poverty. Christiaensen and Subbarao (2005) estimate that raising
the household literacy rate from 50% to 100% would raise household expenditures by 23%
(although this effect is only statistically significant in non-arid zones). Eloundou-Enyegue and
Calves (2006) examine vulnerability to poverty in rural Kenya. They find that poverty – which
afflicts two out of five households – is affected by climate and disease although adult literacy was
also a strong predictor.
The link between education and health is particularly salient for Kenya. Goodman et al.
(2006) investigate how education programs improve health diagnoses and treatments in rural
Kenya. Targeted to general shopkeepers and communities, the program found major
improvements in the use of over-the-counter anti-malarial drugs for childhood fevers. The
proportion of shop-treated childhood fevers treated according to medical guidelines rose from 2%
to 15%, at an economic cost of $4.00 per additional appropriately treated case (2000 US$). For
family health, Kennedy and Haddad (1994) calculate the probability that a Kenyan child is

30

malnourished. Applying the HW translation, any schooling by the mother reduces the probability
of malnutrition to an extent equivalent to a 1% increase in per capita income. However, the most
important health gain from education is related to HIV/AIDS prevalence (education has
significant effects, see Maticka-Tyndale et al., 2007). Direct economic analysis of this is
included below.
6.3 The costs of inadequate education
For Kenya, inadequate education is identied as a failure to complete primary school; this applies
to one-third of the population. Per new completer, the gains in earnings are likely to be 32%.
(This overstates the impacts in that it assumes all persons will be participating in the formal labor
market but understates in that it does not take account of induced labor market participation or
productivity externalities). Applying the average tax rate on income of 21%, the per capita fiscal
cost of school failure in lost taxes is 6.7% of income. Adding in the fiscal costs of crime, at
0.5%, and the government health savings (at 0.6%, or 23% of 2.66%), the per capita annual gross
fiscal cost of school failure is 7.8%, or 23,200KES.
But given the high rate of HIV/AIDS in Kenya, the health effects of education are probably
more salient. For Kenya, Bell et al. (2006) report that investments to raise school attendance
would yield benefit-cost ratios of 1.7-2.9 in per capita GDP simply from reducing AIDS
prevalence. Robalino et al. (2002b) estimate that, conservatively, present value GDP losses for
the period 2000-2020 are 20-30% without a 20-50% reduction in the current incidence rate.
Similarly, Bruhns (2006) estimates long run GDP in Kenya to be significantly below that under a
zero prevalence rate. Microeconomic evidence also shows strong impacts. As reviewed by
Robalino et al. (2002a), Kenyan households with AIDS experience income reductions of
approximately 50%; after the AIDS-related death of a family member, household expenditure per
capita is reduced by 32%. There are also intergenerational impacts that are not counted here: in
their analysis of orphaned and fostered children of HIV-infected parents using the Kenya

31

Demographic and Health Survey, Mishra et al. (2007) identify significantly lower rates of school
attendance, higher rates of malnutrition, and inferior medical care. Hence, the fiscal and social
cost of school failure is likely to be dominated by any reductions in HIV/AIDS incidence in
Kenya.

7. Pakistan
7.1 Education levels
Average attainment among the adult population of Pakistan is very low, at less than three years
per person. Seven out of ten adults have not completed primary school and only half of the
population is literate (see Table 3).
Many households are constrained in providing education for their children, particularly
girls. Income levels strongly influence enrollment (Hazarika and Bedi, 2003; Rosati and Rossi,
2003). The costs of primary school influence enrollment, as does distance to the nearest primary
or secondary school (as found by Holmes, 2003, using the Pakistan Integrated Household Survey
(1991)). The private schooling market has partially responded to the scarcity of public schooling
(Lloyd et al., 2005). Nevertheless, there is still a need for public funding for the large proportion
of families who cannot afford to send their children to primary school.

7.2 The benefits from education
The income benefits from education in Pakistan in the years 1998 and 2001 are reported in Table
5C (Kingdon and Soederbom, 2007). Estimated separately by gender and sector of employment,
the coefficients on schooling are strong positive, except for females who are either self-employed
or work in the agricultural sector. An average of the reported estimates is 7%. Earnings
premiums are higher for older workers (aged over 30), perhaps reflecting the continuing human
capital acquisition of the younger workers. In a study that adjusts for school quality, Behrman et

32

al. (2008) report very high private rates of return (at 20%) from high quality primary school
competion (with social rates of return at 18%).
Yet, the income gains from education are not consistently evident even for low
absolute skill levels. 34 Despite low levels of literacy in Pakistan, Kingdon and Soederbom (2007)
find only weak impacts of literacy (and numeracy) on earnings and labor market participation.
However, only about half of the labor force has wage employment. In early study for
Rawalpindi, Guisinger et al. (1984) found low rates of return to schooling, but attributed that to
government policies that compress the skill-wage structure. In their study that compares farm
and non-farm work, Kurosaki and Khan (2006) find that the earnings gains rise across all
education levels for non-farm work, but that there are only positive gains from completing
primary school for farm workers. Satriawana and Swinton (2007) find that the benefits of
education in the farming sector are very low.
However, the effects of education on participation in the formal labor market are very
strong (Fafchamps and Quisumbing, 2007), both in terms of literacy and primary schooling
(Kochar, 2000). As found for other countries with large rural and agrarian populations, education
induces individuals to substitute farm work for off-farm work (Fafchamps and Quisumbing,
1999).
Gains in economic well-being and health status are also identifiable. Sathar et al. (2003)
find that increases in schooling induce large welfare improvements. An extra year of schooling
raises average consumption by 5% and reduces the percentage of poor by 10%; the effects across
urban and rural areas are very similar. In fact, these effects are understatements because they fail
to account for parental influences: Sathar et al. (2003) find that an increase in parental education
to attain primary schooling reduces the incidence of poverty by 23%. Importantly, mean
consumption increases by 19% but mean consumption by the head of the household only

34

Evidence on remittances indicates that these transfers do not substantially increase income (Adams,
1998).
33

increases by 12%; thus, the household head is sharing the educational benefits with the rest of the
family. Directly, Hazarika (2000) finds that the schooling of the household head strongly
influences the household's purchases of quality foods (meat, milk, and fish). The effects are also
evident for child nutritional status, although the relationship is not substantively large. Using the
HW translation, one year of mother's schooling raises child height equivalent to less than a 2%
increase in household expenditure.
Maternal education also raises child education, both directly and indirectly through
improvements in child health (Alderman et al., 2001). Research has also found positive effects
on contraceptive use. In their analysis, Fikree et al. (2001) find that literacy increases usage by
100%, an effect equal to having double the average number of household assets. Similarly,
Sathar et al. (2003) find that contraceptive use is one-third higher if the mother has completed
primary school. These changes in behavior are of economic value, although a precise cost
consequence cannot be calculated.
7.3 The costs of inadequate education
Given the low levels of attainment, school failure for Pakistan might be regarded as failure to
complete primary school. As given in Table 1A, this applies to 70% of the adult population and
so would represent a significant change in human capital stocks. However, only a small
proportion work in the formal labor market (even as some switching toward that market is
induced by education). Also, as noted above, there are substantial externalities within families
such that extra years of schooling raise consumption across the household.
Accounting for the per person earnings gain of 14% across the 70% of the population, as
well as the induced switch to working in the formal labor market, universal primary school
education would raise GDP per capita by 7.2% each year. With current GDP per capita at
Rs.41,500 (Table 6), the new level of GDP would be Rs.44,500. This boost is an annual one and
it excludes the nutritional impact of maternal education on family health as well as the other intra-

34

family benefits. The fiscal benefits – simply from the increase in earnings in the labor market –
are approximated as a proportion of the increase in GDP spent as general government
expenditure: universal primary school education would increase government revenues annually
by 1.6% of GDP. Again, these fiscal benefits are understatements because they do not include
any impacts on health. Based on studies for other countries and the results from Sathar et al.
(2003), these health gains are likely to be significant, but less than 0.5% of GDP. Similarly, the
addition of intrahousehold externalities would add to the economic consequences of low
education.

8. Mexico
8.1 Education levels
In Mexico, the average adult (aged over 25) has approximately 7 years of education and the
literacy rate is over 90%. However, economic volatility has meant that families have been
significantly constrained in investments in education (Binder, 1999b). Although Skoufias and
Parker (2006) find only weak effects of household head employment status on boy's schooling,
they do find adverse consequences for girls in low-income families. In contrast, Binder (1998)
finds that boy's schooling is more sensitive to family income, with girls' schooling more sensitive
to family structure. Further evidence on the extent to which investments in education may be
sub-optimal is the existence of child labor even before children have accumulated even basic
human capital skills. In Mexico, approximately 7% of children work (Bando et al., 2005).
However, small-scale programs have established that it is possible to raise educational
attainment: Ito (2006, Table 1) reports that Progresa conditional cash-transfers raised schooling
by 0.7 years. Also, nationally attainment has increased by over three years per person since 1980.

35

8.2 Income benefits from education
Table 5B reports earnings premiums for Mexico over the period 1998-2002 (Patrinos and
Metzger, 2005). Split by gender and level of education, these earnings premiums are consistently
positive and substantively significant. Premiums are slightly higher for females but the pattern
across education levels is not consistent or linear: on average, the highest premiums for males
accrue to university graduates whereas for females the premiums are quite similar across
education level. (Levison et al. (2001) emphasize differences in school-to-work transitions for
boys and girls, suggesting that the pathways of human capital accumulation may vary.) Overall,
these earnings premiums can be used to calculate a lifetime economic benefit from additional
attainment.
For earnings premiums for Mexico over the period 1984-1992, see Psacharopoulos et al.
(1996). Despite significant economic fluctuations over this period, the earnings premiums
remained strongly positive (15%). Also, Psacharopoulos et al. (1996) use the full discounting
method to calculate social rates of return (with social defined as ‘net of the costs of education’,
not as ‘including all social benefits’). These rates of return assume two years of foregone
earnings during childhood, to reflect child labor. The highest social rates are at the secondary
education level, reflecting almost-full primary school completion rates (and the social cost of
higher education). Importantly, data for 1992 show social returns range between 11% and 15%
(Psacharopoulos et al. 1996, Table 7). However, more recently Rojas (2006) analyses both
supply and demand factors determining skill premiums and finds that, even as the earnings
premiums are still positive, NAFTA has reduced the returns to high skill in Mexico.
Simple earnings differences do not address induced changes in labor market
participation. 35 Taylor and Yunez-Naude (2000) argue that earnings premiums are typically
35

The adult population in Mexico is divided approximately equally into those working in formal
employment; those working in the household; and those not formally classed as employed (Binder and
Scrogin, 1999). Hence, there is a potential for a very strong impact from education on labor market
participation.
36

under-estimated because they do not adjust for endogenous swiches toward participation in the
formal labor market and away from agricultural production. 36 Controlling for education-related
sectoral choices, each extra year of education adds 15% to cash-crop income. Gong and van
Soest (2002) find that education significantly raises labor market activity by females: for females
with less than six years of education, the labor market participation rate is 19% and the post-tax
wage per worker is 4.43 pesos (1992); for females with more than six years of education, the
figures respectively are 32% and 8.63. Finally, Pagan and Sanchez (2000) report similarly strong
impacts for rural Mexico where more educated males are considerably more likely to be formally
employed. But they also find sharp differences by sex: for males, the big jump in employment
occurs after the completion of primary school; for females completing secondary school doubles
the rate of employment (whereas completing primary school only raises it by 11%).
There is also evidence of positive economic externalities. Samstad and Pipkin (2005)
describe how important human capital stocks are to the development of the maquiladoras. Taylor
and Yunez-Naude (2000) find intra-family externalities on crop incomes: an increase in mean
family schooling of one year is associated with a 16% increase in income from staples and a 13%
increase in income from cash crops. López-Acevedo et al. (2005) find that workers with upper
secondary education are 84% more productive than the base case worker, but they earned only
44% more; for workers with higher education the percentages were 282% and 137%,
respectively. These differences may reflect productivity differences that were not fully
appropriated by educated workers. Alternatively specified, the private returns to education
appear to be approximately 47% of the overall productivity gain.

36

Quinn and Rubb (2006) also emphasize how occupational matching influences the returns to education in
Mexico. Also, Hammitt and Ibarraran (2006) find significantly lower compensating wage differentials for
persons with more education, i.e. these workers not only receive higher pay but also have jobs that are less
dangerous. Inclusion of compensating wage differentials would widen the full earnings gap according to
education levels. Finally, some researchers have argued that educational investments generate more greater
inequality (in part because education is more available in urban areas than rural and the former are already
more wealthy, see Bouillon et al., 2003).
37

As for other countries, there is strong evidence of personal benefits from education in
Mexico, in terms of planned fertility (Miranda, 2006) and improvements in child health (Dexter,
1998). Contreras (2003) also finds that poverty is reduced, even as overall inequality may grow.
However, Cutler et al. (2002) find only modest impacts of literacy on health outcomes and some
indication that increases in female labor market participation may worsen health for the young
and elderly. Studies on long-term well-being are equivocal: whereas Fuentes and Villagomez
(2001) report some benefits in household assets for the more educated, Mayer (2002) finds that
education is not a strong influence on savings rates.

8.3 The costs of inadequate education
Determining school failure in terms of years of attainment, it is possible to calculate the economic
consequences. With GDP per capita of 79,500 pesos (Table 6), the wage and externality effects
would add 18% to the wages of each worker. This translates into an increased per capita income
of 6%, or 392,860 million pesos. With government expenditure at 23.4% of total income, the
fiscal impact would be equivalent to 1.4% of national income.
Again, these amounts are almost certainly understatements of the social benefits of
education. They do not include health benefits, which are likely but for which no evidence is
found. Soares (2006, Table 2) estimates that the welfare costs of violence in Mexico are: 0.6
years of life lost; a marginal willingness to pay equal to 45% of GDP; and a social value of 67%
of GDP (accounting for the costs on future generations). Applying Soares (2006) relationships
between education and crime – a one year increase in attainment would reduce crime by as much
as 30% – the savings for citizens and taxpayers in Mexico would be very large. If crime could
be reduced by 30%, this would be valued at 14% of GDP (much of which would be fiscal
savings) or even 20% of GDP (applying a social valuation).

38

9. Chile
9.1 Education levels
Chile's education system is distinct in that it operates as a voucher system (see McEwan, 2001)
with considerable freedom of choice for families. Educational attainment for adults in Chile is on
average 8 years and the literacy rate is close to full. However, almost half of the population has
not progressed beyond primary school (see Tables 1AB).
9.2 Benefits from education
As shown in Table 5, there is evidence of a positive earnings premium from education. In fact,
across the period 1974-1989 the return to education has been broadly consistent at approximately
9% (see also Hanushek and Zhang, 2006). Evidence on changes on labor market participation
with education levels is not available.
In addition to the private returns, there is also evidence of productivity externalities
through rates of innovation. In their study of plant-level data, Marotta et al. (2007) find that
levels of human capital are strongly positively associated with innovation. Unfortunately, this
association cannot easily be translated into an economic value. 37
Limited evidence is available for Chile on other benefits from education, such as health
and well-bring. Hoefter (2006) does find that education has a strongly positive effect on the use
of private health insurance in Chile: having completed secondary education has the same effect as
increasing own income by almost 40%.

37

Similary, Ramirez (2000) models inflows of foreign direct investment related to overall levels of
economic activity.
39

9.3 The costs of inadequate education
For Chile, school failure is interpreted attainment across the population at less than 9 years.
Given the earnings gains of 9% per worker for each additional year of education, the aggregate
annual economic gain from each additional year of attainment is 3% of GDP or 1,936,500
Chilean pesos. 38 With government expenditure of 20.6% of total GDP, the fiscal gain would be
398,900 Chilean pesos.
These amounts are understatements, because they do not account for the other social
benefits of education, such as health gains, reduced HIV/AIDS prevalence or lower violence. For
example, Soares (2006, Table 2) estimates that the welfare costs of violence in Chile are: 0.9
years of life lost; a marginal willingness to pay equal to 54% of GDP; and a social value of 86%
of GDP (accounting for the costs on future generations). As with the case study for Mexico, even
small impacts of education on criminal activity are likely to boost GDP significantly, at least
rivalling the economic consequences for earnings.

10. Ukraine
10.1 Education levels
In the Ukraine, education levels are high: the average attainment across adults is 11 years, or
almost the equivalent of high school; 80% of students enroll through secondary school; and the
literacy rate is almost universal (Tables 1AB). However, high attainment is common in former
Communist countries where labor markets do not fully reflect skills and wages are artificially
compressed (Barro and Lee, 2000). Education often serves as a consumption good and is not
directed at obtaining business-related skills. Thus, it is possible that educational investments fail
to generate economic benefits.
38

Accounting for labor market participation rates of 65% of the adult population.
40

10.2 Benefits from education
Information on the Ukrainian labor market is very limited, but the returns to education in the
Ukraine have recently been calculated by Patrinos (2008). As reported in Table 5D, these are
only significant for high levels of education, i.e. persons with a university degree or those with a
graduate degree. This reflects the very high and compressed overall education levels of the
population. Nevertheless, it is indicative of high returns beyond completion of high school. It is
also likely that younger cohorts of workers will reap higher returns from education as wage
determination becomes more flexible as the economy becomes more market-based. Kupets
(2005) applies a survival model to unemployment durations in the Ukraine and finds that more
educated workers are less likely to remain unemployed.
10.3 The costs of inadequate education
Given the high levels of education in the Ukraine, school failure is interpreted as failure to
graduate from high school. As a simplification, this is assumed to require one more year of
education on average across the population. Based on Patrinos' (2008) calculations of the
earnings benefits of one more year of education, the total wage amounts paid to labor would rise
by 7% for each worker. Average GDP per capita in the Ukraine is 9,000UAH (see Table 6).
Accounting for an adult labor force participation rate of 62%, an employment rate of 90%, the
total annual increase in national income would be 2.6%.
These income gains will have signficant fiscal consequences because the Ukraine has a
large government sector. Given government spending of 44.6% of national income, an additional
year of attainment would approximate to 1.18% extra government revenues annually. However,
this is just the additional tax revenues. There are likely to be other savings from reductions in
HIV/AIDS and crime (as well as other potential benefits in health and intrahousehold
externalities).

41

World Bank (2007) evidence on the costs of HIV/AIDS is also available. For the
Ukraine, predicted additional costs by 2014 are estimated at 263-418 million UAH in direct
budget revenue losses and an additional 139-155 million UAH in extra spending on health and
welfare supports. Compared with a zero prevalence rate, the economic costs of HIV/AIDS for
the Ukraine range between 1-6% of GDP (World Bank, 2007). Given the impact of education
from Lakhanpal and Ram (2008), an additional year of education would generate substantial
savings of at least the lower bound estimate of 1% of GDP.
Finally, the costs of crime can be considered. Soares (2006, Table 2) estimates that the
welfare costs of violence in Ukraine are: 0.6 years of life lost; a marginal willingness to pay equal
to 38% of GDP; and a social value of 29% of GDP (accounting for the costs on future
generations). Based on Soares's relationship between education and crime, the annual economic
savings from reduced crime – both fiscal and social – are likely to be very large.

11. Egypt
11.1 Education levels
Educational attainment in Egypt is on average five years of schooling per adult; but almost half of
the adult population has not completed primary school and almost one-third are not fully literate
(Tables 1AB).
Economic conditions are such that educational investments are probably sub-optimal
(MENA, 2007). As noted in World Bank (2004c), the costs of schooling are prohibitive for some
families: the income foregone from attending secondary school was approximately half of the
poverty line for a family with two adults and three children; and school availability in rural areas
is limited. A non-trivial number of children are active in the labor market (Wahba, 2006), and
this is partly driven by family income and education levels. However, Hanushek et al. (2006)

42

conclude that family decisions largely reflect the low quality of schooling available in the public
system and that many families must as a consequence pay for private tutoring. Thus, it is hard to
establish the extent of suboptimality although the low literacy rate is an important indicator.

11.2 Benefits from education
As shown in Tables 5AE, earnings premiums vary considerably across education levels in Eqypt,
with some earnings premiums quite low or negative for females (see also Dobrogonov and Iqbal,
2005). For males, at least, the returns are at least 8% and possibly 29% for vocational secondary
education; but these may be overstated (Hanushek et al., 2006). However, Enders (2007)
anticipates that, in the near future, as supply constraints start to bind, the rate of return to
education should increase. Nevertheless, the income gains from additional years of education are
still positive on average and these gains do not account for the greater job security associated with
higher education (as found by Assaad and Tunali, 2002). Participation in the formal labor market
is also enhanced with higher levels of education, in part induced by significant migration into
cities by educated workers (as found by McCormick and Wahba, 2005).
The benefits of education are lower for those living in rural areas (see Table 5A), perhaps
in part because literacy skills are less utilized. However, rural residents still earn a significant
fraction of their overall incomes from non-farm income: according to Adams (2002), non-farm
income accounts for 60% of total per capita income for the rural poor. Thus, educational benefits
are still likely to be substantial.
Alternative measures of economic well-being also support the need for investments in
education. World Bank (2004b) finds poverty rates and education are strongly negatively
correlated: whereas almost 25% of illiterate persons are poor; the rate is 10% for persons with
some secondary education; and almost zero for persons with some college education. Similarly,
Datt and Joliffe’s (2005) estimation of consumption rates show that each year of schooling adds
5% to per capita consumption in urban areas and 4% in rural areas. Finally, fertility rates in

43

Egypt are lower as education increases (Cochrane et al., 1990), although the effect is not
substantively large.
Reductions in the poverty rate might lower government spending. Yet, because of data
limitations, it is not possible to model for progressivity of the tax system and the extent to which
welfare payments might be reduced. According to the World Bank (2004c) Egypt’s safety net for
poverty has expanded over the last few decades. Public cash transfers amount to 5% of the
income of low-income families (who also receive private supports of an equivalent amount).
However, social assistance programs are “modest and not necessarily targeted to the poor”; in
2002, these programs allocated on average 560LE to 900,000 families (World Bank, 2004c, xiii).
Any savings in these transfers are unlikely to be significant.
11.3 The costs of inadequate education
Given the low absolute levels of education in Egypt, we consider a scenario in which completion
of primary school was universal.
Earnings gains are derived from changes in average incomes in Egypt. In 2005, GDP per
capita in Egypt is EGP7,300 (equivalent to $1270, see Table 6). Assuming a labor force
participation rate of 66% of the total population, the average wage per worker is EGP11,100. If
all the workers who have not completed primary school were assumed to have completed primary
school, there would be several effects: these workers would have higher wages; and more of these
workers would switch to participation in the formal labor market. Based on the wage premium of
8% and two years needed to complete primary school, the overall effect is to increase the average
wage to EGP11,300 and so the aggregate national income would rise by 2.2% annually. Based
on government expenditure of 32.54% of GDP, there would be an increase in government
revenues of 0.72% or EGP1,253 million. (This figure would be lower if agricultural workers pay
limited amounts in tax because they experience consumption rather than income gains).

44

As well as these labor market effects there are also savings if the rate of HIV/AIDS can
be reduced. These costs may be significant. The simulation by Robalino et al. (2002a, Table 5)
calculates that for Egypt a five-year delay in implementing policies to reduce HIV prevalence
would mean an extra 100,000 infections and a cost equivalent to 8% of present value of country
GDP. Using the evidence from Lakhanpal and Ram (2008), universal completion of primary
school would reduce the HIV/AIDS prevalence by at least 34%. This would reduce the infection
rate significantly and so reduce the present value cost to GDP. As with other countries, any
reductions in criminal activity should also be included in the gross costs of school failure.

12. Conclusions
This report examines how low educational attainment is associated with significant gross
economic costs for private individuals, for taxpayers, and for society. A copious amount of
research literature has shown that higher education levels are associated with higher earnings,
increased labor market participation, better health status (including lower prevalence of epidemic
disease), and improvements in family decision-making. In addition, education is also associated
with lower rates of poverty and intra-household benefits such as improved family nutrition.
These effects are generally found for males and females, for urban and rural residents, and for
developing and developed economies. Even as they do not count the costs of making educational
investments, these school failure costs are suggestive of significant economic burdens as
populations fail to make optimal investments in education.
However, the exact size of the gross costs of school failure remains to be determined; the
estimates reported here are illustrative rather than definitive. Above we described the method for
calculating these costs of school failure. This method is simple in principle, but far from simple
or simple in practice. There are significant methodological challenges and a number of key
assumptions may influence the overall results. These challenges include: assessing the value of
45

child labor and modelling how children participate in the formal economy; assessing the value of
household activities and intra-household externalities; understanding how economic fluctuations
mediate educational gains; fully valuing gains in health status; and calculating the burden of
taxation. In addition, different calculations are relevant for urban versus rural groups, for age
cohorts in school versus adult workers already in the labor market, and for fiscal returns versus
social returns. Our calculations have focussed on the fiscal returns, not only because these
returns should determine the level of public funding but also because if these are substantial, the
social returns are likely to be extremely large.
Case studies for eight selected countries illustrate these points. First, there do appear to
be constraints on investments in education such that many families are making inadequate
investments and so forgoing private income and health advantages. Second, calculating the
overall economic magnitude of school failure is complex and varies from country to country. The
results of these calculations are given in Table 7, along with the key influences for each country.
For some of the case studies, the role of education in raising health status in general may be the
most important relationship (e.g., Indonesia, Pakistan, and Egypt); and for others it is the specific
link between education and HIV/AIDS prevalence that matters (e.g., Kenya and Ghana). For
other countries, the link between education and criminal activity merits further attention (e.g.
Mexico). For a third set of countries, the traditional link between education and the labor market
is perhaps the most salient (Ukraine, Chile). Although other impacts – such as reducing reliance
on government health and anti-poverty programs – are not trivial but are orders of magnitude
smaller than these other factors.
Overall, given the sizeable and diverse microeconomic benefits of education – and the
extremely low levels of education in some of the countries analyzed here – it seems likely that the
gross costs of school failure are significant. Critically, these costs are a measure of the extent to
which public funding of education is inadequate and so whether further investigation into
educational interventions and programs is warranted.
46

Box 1
Benefits from Education across Different Perspectives
Perspective

Benefits from education

P
Private individual

(1) Gain in net earnings and wealth
+ (2) Improved health status / life expectancy
+ (3) Household productivity gains
- (4) Fees for education

F
Fiscal or government
(state/local and
federal/central)

(5) Increased tax payments
+ (6) Lower reliance on government health programs
+ (7) Reduced expenditures on criminal justice
+ (8) Lower reliance on welfare
- (9) Subsidy for education

S
Social

Private individual benefits
+ Fiscal benefits
+ (10) Productivity externalities
+ (11) Gains from reduced crime
+ (12) Social value of health

47

Box 2
Method for Calculation of the Costs of School Failure
Stages
(1) Educational
Investments

(1A) Describe public and private investments in education
(1B) Consider extent to which total educational investments are suboptimal
(1C) Predict a feasible increase in education investments funded by
public funds
(1D) Account for path-dependence of schooling and school quality

(2) Impacts of education

(2A) Catalog of private, fiscal, and social impacts of education [see
Box 1]
(2B) Identify ‘causal’ impacts of education using best available
evidence
(2C) Adjust cross-sectional impacts of education by alpha factor [to
account for differences in student characteristics]

(3) Monetary benefits of
education

(3A) Cost out the individual causal impacts of education [based on
budgets, expenditures or HW translation]
(3B) Sum the individual monetary benefits expressed as present
values
(3C) Subtract any government subsidies for education to calculate
the net costs of school failure.

(4) Sensitivity issues

(4A) Omitted impacts
(4B) General equilibrium effects
(4C) Value of child labor
(4D) Value of informal work time
(4E) Discount rate
(4F) Data quality
(4G) Differences by race/ethnicity, sex, and locality

48

Box 3
Additional Benefits of Education
Benefit typically
omitted from benefit–
cost analysis

Illustrations of the influence of education

1. Environmental
impacts

Dasgupta (2000) finds greater compliance with environmental
protection laws in Mexico where human capital levels are higher.

2. Income from
remittances

Taylor and Yunez-Naude (2000) report positive – but small – effects
of education on remittances in Mexico.

3. Migration

Education encourages migration from areas of high poverty.

4. Family formation /
household size

Education is associated with family size and improved planning of
fertility.

5. Reduced need for
children to enter labor
market

Wahba (2006) finds that parental education is strongly negatively
associated with child labor rates in Egypt.

6. Civic order / good
government / political
stability

Beard (2007) examines the role between human capital and
community development in Indonesia.
Binder (1999a) investigated how community values influence the
decision to invest in education.

7. Life expectancy /
child mortality

Education raises life expectancy and reduces child mortality through
better health knowledge.

49

Table 1A
Educational status (Populations aged 25+)
Highest level attained

Second
Level

PostSecond
ary

Ave.
years in
school

13
18
18

8
17
25

6
7
11

2.21
3.57
5.05

66
54
46

19
23
25

15
22
28

1
1
1

2.35
3.34
4.01

5.2
7.4
10.5

59
45
33

32
46
52

9
8
14

1
1
1

2.46
2.98
3.99

1980
1990
2000

5.1
6.7
8.4

9
6
5

57
48
43

27
34
36

7
12
16

5.96
7.14
7.89

1980
1990
2000
Indonesia
1980
1990
2000
Pakistan
1980
1990
2000
Ukrainea
2000

25.0
33.6
48.0

34
19
12

49
49
47

12
23
29

5
9
11

4.01
5.87
6.73

59.3
79.3
105.1

41
55
36

48
26
37

10
17
22

1
2
5

3.09
3.30
4.71

29.9
44.4
61.5

79
74
70

9
10
13

11
14
14

3
3
3

1.74
2.29
2.45

Population
over 25
(millions)

Below first

First level

1980
1990
2000

16.4
23.6
31.0

74
58
46

1980
1990
2000

3.8
5.3
7.3

1980
1990
2000

Egypt

Ghana

Kenya

Chile

Mexico

11.0

Source: Barro and Lee (2000). a Data for the Ukraine from UNESCO and applies to the
population aged 15+.

50

Table 1B
Economic Data on the Education System

Ukraine
Pakistan
Mexico
Chile
Egypt
Indonesia
Kenya
Ghana

Adult
literacy
rate

Net
enrollment
ratio
(secondary)

Public
education
spending
(% of GDP)

99%
50%
92%
96%
71%
61%
74%
58%

80%
21%
65%
55%
82%
n.a.
42%
37%

6.4%
2.3%
5.4%
3.5%
4.7%
3.8%
6.7%
5.4%

Source: World Bank, 2005 data (or nearest year available).

51

Current spending per student as
a % of GDP per capita
Primary Secondary Higher
15
n.a.
15
12
n.a.
10
24
13

24
n.a.
16
14
n.a.
17
24
35

34
n.a.
41
12
n.a.
95
277
210

Table 2
Evaluation of educational policy
Country

Ukraine
Mexico
Chile
Indonesia

Level of education

Evidence of suboptimal
investments in education

Ghana

Barro and Lee (2000)
Binder (1998; 1999a)
McEwan (2001)
McMahon and Boediono
(1992); Cann (1982);
Newhouse and Beegle
(2006)
Tansel (1997)

Kenya

Bedi et al. (2004)

Pakistan

Holmes (2003)

Egypt

MENA (2007)

52

Binder (1999b)
Ito (2006); Filmer (2008)

Lavy (1996); Glick and Sahn
(2000); Ray (2002)
Kabubo-Mariara and Mwabu
(2007)
Rosati and Rossi (2003);
Hazarika and Bedi (2003)
Wahba (2006); World Bank
(2004c)

Table 3
Evidence on the impacts of education in the labor market
Country

Impact of education on:
Wages

Mexico

Patrinos and Metzger
(2005); Quinn and Rubb
(2006); Rojas (2006)

Chile

Ramirez (2000); Hanushek
and Zhang (2006)
Duflo (2001); Skoufias and
Suryahadi (2002)
Jones (2001); Teal (2000);
Jolliffe (1998)
Soderman et al. (2006)
Kingdon and Soederbom
(2007); Behrman et al.
(2008); Guisinger et al.
(1984)
El-Hamidi (2006);
Hanushek et al. (2006);
Dobrogonov and Iqbal,
2005; Enders (2007)
Patrinos (2008)

Indonesia
Ghana
Kenya
Pakistan

Egypt

Ukraine

Labor market
participation

Earnings in informal
sectors

Workplace productivity

Skoufias and Parker (2006)

Levison et al. (2001);
Binder and Scrogin (1999)

Taylor and Yunez-Naude
(2000); Barboza and
Barreto (2006); Samstad
and Pipkin (2005); LopezAcevedo et al. (2005)
Marotta et al. (2007)

Abdulai and Delgado
(1999)
Lokshin et al. (2004)

Strobl (2004); Jolliffe
(1998,2004)
Kurosaki and Khan (2006);
Fafchamps and
Quisumbing (1999)

Wahba (2006); Assaad and
Tunali (2002)
Patrinos (2008)

53

Adams (2002)

Todo and Miyamoto
(2006)
Frazer (2006); Barr (2000);
Vijverberg (1995)
De Beyer (1990)
Satriawana and Swinton
(2007)

Table 4
Evidence on the impacts of education on personal well-being
Country

Mexico
Chile
Indonesia
Ghana
Kenya

Pakistan

Impact of education on:
Health status

Fertility

Intrahousehold transfers

Long term economic wellbeing

Cutler et al. (2002); Mayer
(2002); Hammitt and
Ibarraran (2006)
Hoefter (2006)
Miller et al. (2006); Gertler
and Gruber (2002)

Miranda (2006); Todd and
Wolpin (2006)

Gong and van Soest
(2002); Pagan and Sanchez
(2000); Dexter et al. (1998)

Fuentes and Villagomez
(2001); Contreras (2003)

Angeles et al. (2005);
Mellington and Cameron
(1999)
Benefo and Schultz (1996);
Ahiadeke (2001)
Maticka-Tyndale et al.
(2007)

Park (2007); Beard (2007)

Sathar et al. (2003); Fikree
et al. (2001)

Hazarika (2000);
Fafchamps and
Quisumbing (2007);
Kochar (2000)
Cochrane et al. (1990)

Lavy et al. (1996); Schultz
(1999)
Goodman et al. (2006);
Yamano and Jayne (2005)
Alderman et al. (2001);
Higgins and Alderman
(1997)

Egypt
Ukraine

54

Kennedy and Haddad
(1994)
Mishra et al. (2007);
Kennedy and Haddad
(1994)

Kyereme and Thorbecke
(1987, 1991)
Eloundou-Enyeque and
Calves (2006);
Christiaensen and
Subbarao (2005)
Adams (1998)

McCormick and Wahba
(2005); Datt and Jolliffe
(2005)

Table 5A
Earnings premium from education: Survey evidence
Country

Earnings premiums per year of attainment

Ukraine

See Table 5D

Mexico

See Table 5B

Chile

8.3%
(1974)
17%
(1981)
8.5%
(1989)
16.4%
(1970)
4.6%
(1989)
12%
(urban -2006)

Indonesia
Ghana
Kenya
Pakistan
Egypt

9.6%
(1980)
7%
(1995)
7.1%
(1995)
16%
(1986)
15.4%
(1991)
5%
(rural – 2006)

9.2%
(1989)
6.8-10.6%
(1995)

See Table 5C
See Table 5E

Sources: Psacharopoulos and Patrinos (2004); for Egypt, Hanushek et al (2006); third estimate for
Indonesia from Duflo (2001). Notes: Dates of estimate given in parentheses.

Table 5B
Earnings premium from education: Mexico
1998
Male
Female

2000
Male

Female

2002
Male
Female

Primary
15.4
18.2
12.9
15.9
14.0
16.3
Lower secondary
13.6
17.9
10.2
16.0
11.4
15.0
Upper secondary
18.9
24.0
15.2
19.2
16.3
19.8
University
18.7
15.0
19.1
16.0
17.1
14.8
Source: Patrinos and Metzger (2005, Table 8). Notes: Percentages, controlling for experience
(squared) and hours worked.

55

Table 5C
Earnings premium from education: Pakistan
Wage employed
Male
Female

Self-employed
Male
Female

Agriculture
Male
Female

1998-99 data:
Ages 16-30
0.033**
0.117**
0.045**
0.072
0.066
-0.157
Age 31-70
0.038**
0.145**
0.071
0.180**
0.067**
0.257*
2001-02 data:
Ages 16-30
0.040**
0.117**
0.043**
0.067**
0.086**
-0.247
Age 31-70
0.056**
0.165**
0.056**
0.037
0.123**
-0.087
Source: Kindgon and Soederbom (2007, Tables 5A and 5B). Notes: Coefficients on years of
schooling. Sample selection correction applied. Statistical significance at 5% *, 1% **.

Table 5D
Earnings premium from education: Ukraine
All
Basic education (vs none)
0.6%
Upper secondary (vs basic)
0.7%
Vocational and technical (vs basic)
3.5%
University (vs upper secondary)
7.7%**
Graduate program (vs university)
8.6%**
Source: Patrinos (2008). Statistical significance at 1% **.

Males
2.1%
-0.4%
4.2%
7.5%**
14.8%**

Table 5E
Earnings premium from education: Eqypt

Voc. sec. educ over gen. sec. educ.
Higher educ. over voc. sec.
Univ. over higher inst.
Univ. over voc. sec.
Univ. over gen. sec.
Source: El-Hamidi (2006).

56

Male

Female

0.29
0.11
0.08
0.10
0.17

-0.02
0.03
0.06
0.05
0.06

Females
-3.3%
4.2%
6.4%
9.5%**
4.1%**

Table 6
Economic data

Ukraine
Pakistan
Mexico
Chile
Egypt
Indonesia
Kenya
Ghana

GDP NCU
(millions)

General
Govt Exp
NCU
(millions)

GDP per
capita
NCU

418,529
6,547,590
8,369,246
64,549,137
536,600
2,729,708,200
1,415,150
97,035,100

186,522
1,433,580
1,958,012
13,283,392
174,657
509,419,000
296,350
29,895,000

9,004
41,457
79,480
3,961,285
7,248
12,252,877
41,311
4,388,147

ER into
dollars

5.12
59.5
10.9
561
5.7
9,705
75.6
9,073

GDP per
capita ($US)

$1,760
$700
$7,290
$7,060
$1,270
$1,260
$550
$480

Source: IMF Country statistics, www.imf.org (2005). Notes: NCU, National Currency Units; ER,
exchange rate; GNI, gross national income.

57

Table 7
Gross Costs of School Failure

Assessment of School Failure
Ukraine

1 year of attainment

Pakistan

Full primary school completion
(extra 70% of age cohort)

Mexico

1 year of attainment

Chile

1 year of attainment

Egypt

Full primary school completion
(extra 46% of age cohort)

Indonesia

Full primary school completion
(extra 36% of age cohort)

Kenya

Full primary school completion
(extra 33% of age cohort)
Full primary school completion
(extra 46% of age cohort)

Ghana

Key Influences
on Gross Costs
Labor market returns in market
economy
Benefits to rural populations: farm
and non-farm work; intrahousehold
externalities
Labor market returns; societal
violence
Labor market returns
Benefits to rural populations: farm
and non-farm work; intrahousehold
externalities
Benefits to rural populations: farm
and non-farm work; intrahousehold
externalities
HIV/AIDS incidence
HIV/AIDS incidence

Gross Fiscal Cost
Annual Amount
Increase of 1.2% in government revenues
Social value of HIV/AIDS reduction ~1% of GDP
Increase GDP per capita by 7.2%
Fiscal gain of 1.6% of GDP
Increased in per capita income of 6%
Fiscal gain of 1.4% of GDP
Total economic gain of 3% of GDP
Fiscal gain of 0.6% of GDP
Increase in aggregate national income of 2.2%
Increase in government revenues of 0.7% of GDP
Per completer, 3.3% of per capita income
Total per cohort: 1.1% of GDP
Per completer, 7.8% of per capita income
Per completer, 9.3% of per capita income.
Total per cohort: 4.3% of per capita income

Notes: Gross costs do not include the educational investments required to rectify school failure. Costs are not discounted.

58

References
Abdulai, A, Delgado, CL. 1999. Determinants of nonfarm earnings of farm-based husbands and wives in
Northern Ghana. American Journal Of Agricultural Economics, 81, 117-130.
Abu-Qarn, AS and S Abu-Bader. 2007. Sources of growth revisited: Evidence from selected MENA
countries. World Development, 35, 752-771.
Acosta, P, Calderon, C, Fajnzylber, P and H Lopez. 2008. What is the impact of international remittances
on poverty and inequality in Latin America? World Development, 36, 89-114.
Adams, RH. 1998. Remittances, investment, and rural asset accumulation in Pakistan Economic
Development And Cultural Change, 47 155 173
Adams, RH. 2002.Nonfarm income, inequality, and land in rural Egypt. Economic Development And
Cultural Change, 50, 339-363.
Adams, RH. 2006. Remittances and poverty in Ghana. World Bank Research Group Working Paper,
WPS3838.
Ahiadeke, C. 2001. Incidence of induced abortion in Southern Ghana. International Family Planning
Perspectives, 27, 211-223.
Ainsworth, M and D Filmer. 2006. Children's schooling: AIDS, orphanhood, poverty, and gender. World
Development, 34, 1099-1128.
Alderman, H, Behrman, JR, Lavy, V, Menon, R. 2001. Child health and school enrollment - A longitudinal
analysis Journal Of Human Resources 36 185 205
Angeles, G, Guilkey, DK, Mroz, TA. 2005. The effects of education and family planning programs on
fertility in Indonesia Economic Development And Cultural Change, 54 165-201
Arze del Granado, FJ, Fengler, W, Ragaiz, A and E Yavuz. 2007. Investing in Indonesia's Education:
Allocation, Equity, and Efficiency of Public Expenditures. World Bank Policy Research Working
Paper, 4329.
Assaad, R, Tunali, I. 2002. Wage formation and recurrent unemployment. Labour Economics, 9 17-61.
Avenstrup, R, Liang, X, and S Nellemann. 2004. Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, and Uganda: Universal primary
education and poverty reduction. World Bank Research Paper, 30765.
Baeza, CC and T Packard. 2006. Beyond Survival. Protecting households from health shocks in Latin
America. Stanford University Press and the World Bank.
Bando, R, Lopez-Calva, L and HA Patrinos. 2005. Child labor, school attendance, and indigenous
households: Evidence from Mexico. World Bank Research Paper.
Barboza, GA, Barreto, H. 2006. Learning by association: Micro credit in Chiapas, Mexico. Contemporary
Economic Policy, 24, 316-331.
Barr, A. 2000.Social capital and technical information flows in the Ghanaian manufacturing sector. Oxford
Economic Papers, 52, 539-559.
Barrera, A. 1990. The role of maternal schooling and its interactioin with public health programs in child
health production. Journal of Development Economics, 32, 69-91.
Barro, R and W-H Lee. 2000. World Bank education attainment data. Access at:
//web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL~ /TOPICS/~ EXTEDUCATION/
EXTDATASTATISTICS~ /EXTEDSTATS/
Beard, VA. 2007. Household contributions to community development in Indonesia. World Development,
35, 607-625
Bedi, AS, Kimalu, PK, Mandab, DK, Nafula, N. 2004. The decline in primary school enrolment in Kenya.
Journal OF AFRICAN ECONOMIES, 13, 1-43.
Behrman J and B Wolfe. 1987. How does mother's schooling affect family health, nutrition, medical care
usage and household sanitation? Journal of Econometrics, 36, 185-204.
Behrman, J and N Birdsall. 1983. The quality of schooling: Quantity alone is misleading. American
Economic Review, 73, 928-946.
Behrman, J and N Stacey. 1997. The Social Benefits of Education. University of Michigan Press: Ann
Arbor, MI.
Behrman, JR, Ross, D, Sabot, R 2008.Improving quality versus increasing the quantity of schooling:
Estimates of rates of return from rural Pakistan. Journal Of Development Economics, 85, 94-104.
Belfield, CR and HM Levin. 2007. The Price We Pay: The Costs to the Nation of Inadequate Education.
Brookings Institution Press: Washington, DC.

59

Bell, C, Devarajan, S and H Gerbach. 2006. The long-run economic costs of AIDS: A model with an
application to South Africa. World Bank Economic Review, 20, 55-89.
Benefo, K, Schultz, TP. 1996.Fertility and child mortality in Cote d'Ivoire and Ghana. World Bank
Economic Review, 10, 123-158.
Binder, M, and D Scrogin. 1999. Labor force participation and household work of urban schoolchildren in
Mexico: Characteristics and consequences. Economic Development And Cultural Change, 48, 123154.
Binder, M. 1998. Family background, gender and schooling in Mexico. Journal Of Development Studies,
35, 54-71.
Binder, M. 1999a. Community effects and desired schooling of parents and children in Mexico. Economics
of Education Review, 18, 311-325.
Binder, M. 1999b. Schooling indicators during Mexico's "Lost decade". Economics of Education Review,
18, 183-199.
Block, SA. 2007. Maternal nutrition knowledge versus schooling as determinants of child micronutrient
status. Oxford Economic Papers, 59, 330-353.
Blunch, NH, Verner, D. 2004.Asymmetries in the union wage premium in Ghana. World Bank Economic
Review, 18, 237-252.
Botchway, K. 2001. Paradox of empowerment: Reflections on a case study from Northern Ghana. World
Development, 29, 135-153.
Bouillon, CP, Legovini, A, Lustig, N. 2003. Rising inequality in Mexico: Household characteristics and
regional effects. JOURNAL OF DEVELOPMENT STUDIES, 39, 112-133.
Boyle, MH, Racine, Y, Georgiades, K, Snelling, D, Hong, SJ, Omariba, W, Hurley, P, Rao-Melacini, P.
2006. The influence of economic development level, household wealth and maternal education on
child health in the developing world. Social Science & Medicine, 63 2242-2254.
Bruhns, R. 2006. The long-run effects of HIV/AIDS in Kenya. Munich RePEc Archive. mpra.ub.unimuenchen.de/952/1/MPRA_paper_952.pdf
Cann, KT. 1982. An economic evaluation of elementary education for dropouts in Indonesia, Economics of
Education Review, 2, 67-89.
Christiaensen, LJ, Subbarao, K. 2005. Towards an understanding of household vulnerability in rural
Kenya.Journal Of African Economies, 14, 520-558.
Contreras, D. 2003. Poverty and inequality in a rapid growth economy: Chile 1990-1996. Journal of
Development Studies, 39, 181-200.
Cutler, DM, Knaul, F, Lozano, R, Mendez, O, Zurita, B. 2002. Financial crisis, health outcomes and
ageing: Mexico in the 1980s and 1990s. Journal Of Public Economics, 84, 279-303.
Dasgupta, S, Hettige, H, and D Wheeler. 2000. What improves environmental compliance? Evidence from
Mexican industry. Journal of Environmental Economics and Management, 39, 39-66.
Datt, G, Jolliffe, D. 2005.Poverty in Egypt: Modeling and policy simulations. Economic Development And
Cultural Change, 53, 327-346.
De Beyer, J. 1990. The incidence and impact on earnings of formal training provided by enterprises in
Kenya and Tanzania. Economics of Education Review, 9, 321-330.
Dexter, ER, LeVine, SE, Velasco, PM. 1998. Maternal schooling and health-related language and literacy
skills in rural Mexico. Comparative Education Review, 42, 139-162.
Dickie, M. 2005.Parental behavior and the value of children's health: A health production approach.
Southern Economic Journal, 71, 855-872.
Dobronogov, A and F Iqbal. 2005. Economic growth in Egypt: Constraints and determinants. World Bank
Working Paper Series, 42-34510.
Duflo, E. 2001. Schooling and labor market consequences of school construction in Indonesia: Evidence
from an unusual policy experiment American Economic Review, 91, 795-813.
El-Hamidi, F. 2006. General or vocational schooling? Evidence on school choice, returns, and 'sheepskin'
effects from Egypt 1998. Journal Of Policy Reform, 9, 157-176.
Eloundou-Enyegue, PM, Calves, AE. 2006.Till marriage do us part: Education and remittances from
married women in Africa. Comparative Education Review,
El-Sony, AI. 2006.The cost to health services of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) co-infection among
tuberculosis patients in Sudan. Health Policy, 75, 272-279.
Enders, K. 2007. Egypt - searching for binding constraints on growth. IMF Working Paper, 07-57.

60

Fafchamps, M, Quisumbing, AR. 1999. Human capital, productivity, and labor allocation in rural Pakistan
Journal Of Human Resources 34, 369-406
Fafchamps, M, Quisumbing, AR. 2007. Social roles, human capital, and the intrahousehold division of
labor: evidence from Pakistan Oxford Economic Papers-New Series, 55 36 80.
Fikree, FF, Khan, A, Kadir, MM, Sajan, F, Rahbar, MH. 2001. What influences contraceptive use among
young women in urban squatter settlements of Karachi, Pakistan? International Family Planning
Perspectives 27 130-136.
Filmer, D. 2008. Gender and wealth disparities in schooling: Evidence from 44 countries. International
Journal of Education Research, 43, 351-369.
Forsythe, S, Arthur, G, Ngatia, G, Mutemi, R, Odhiambo, J, Gilks, C. 2002. Assessing the cost and
willingness to pay for voluntary HIV counselling and testing in Kenya. Health Policy And Planning,
17, 187-195.
Frazer, G. 2006. Learning the master's trade: Apprenticeship and human capital in Ghana. Journal Of
Development Economics, 81, 259-298.
Fuentes, R, and FA Villagomez. 2001. Savings of low-income households in Mexico - Cohort analysis.
Trimestre Economico, 68, 109-133.
Gertler, P and J Gruber. 2002. Insuring consumption against illness. American Economic Review, 92, 5176.
Glick, P, Sahn, DE. 2000. Schooling of girls and boys in a West African country: the effects of parental
education, income, and household structure. Economics Of Education Review, 19, 63-87.
Gong, XD, van Soest, A. 2002.Family structure and female labor supply in Mexico City. Journal Of
Human Resources, 37, 163-191.
Goodman, CA, Mutemi, WM, Baya, EK, Willetts, A, Marsh, V. 2006. The cost-effectiveness of improving
malaria home management: shopkeeper training in rural Kenya.Health Policy And Planning, 21,
275-288.
Grignon, M. 2007. The role of education in health system performance. Economics of Education Review,
26, 123-134.
Grossman, M and R Kaestner. 1997. The effects of education on health. In Behrman, J and N Stacey (eds)
The Social Benefits of Education. University of Michigan Press: Ann Arbor, MI.
Guisinger, SE, Henderson, W and G Scully. 1984. Earnings, rates of return to education and the earnings
distribution in Pakistan, Economics of Education Review, 3, 257-267.
Hammitt, James K., Ibarraran, Maria Eugenia. 2006. The economic value of fatal and non-fatal
occupational risks in Mexico City using actuarial- and perceived-risk estimates. Health Economics,
15, 1329-1335.
Hanushek, E, Lavy, V and K Hitomi. 2006. Do students care about school quality? Determinants of dropout
behavior in developing countries. NBER Working paper, w12737.
Hanushek, EA and L Zhang. 2006. Quality-consistent estimates of international returns to skill. NBER
Working Paper, w12664.
Hazarika, G, Bedi, AS. 2003. Schooling costs and child work in rural Pakistan Journal Of Development
Studies, 39, 29-64.
Hazarika, G. 2000. Gender differences in children's nutrition and access to health care in Pakistan Journal
Of Development Studies 37 73-92.
Higgins, PA, Alderman, H. 1997. Labor and women's nutrition - The impact of work effort and fertility on
nutritional status in Ghana. Journal Of Human Resources, 32 577-595.
Hoefter, RH. 2006. Private health insurance and utilization of health services in Chile. Applied Economics,
38,423-439.
Holmes, J. 2003. Measuring the determinants of school completion in Pakistan: analysis of censoring and
selection bias Economics Of Education Review, 22, 249-264.
Ito, S. 2006. Raising educational attainment of the poor: Policies and issues. Developing Economies, 44,
500-531
Jolliffe, D. 1998. Skills, schooling, and household income in Ghana. World Bank Economic Review, 12, 81104.
Jolliffe, D. 2004. The impact of education in rural Ghana: examining household labor allocation and returns
on and off the farm. JOURNAL OF DEVELOPMENT ECONOMICS, 73, 287-314.
Jones, P. 2001.Are educated workers really more productive? Journal Of Development Economics, 64, 5779.

61

Kabubo-Mariara, J. and DK Mwabu. 2007. Determinants of school enrolment and education attainment:
Empirical evidence from Kenya. South African Journal Of Economics, 75,572-593.
Kennedy, A and L Haddad. 1994. Are preschoolers from female-headed households less malnourished – A
comparative analysis of results from Ghana and Kenya. Journal of Development Studies, 30, 680695.
Kingdon, G and M Soederbom. 2007. Education, skills, and labor market outcomes: Evidence from
Pakistan. Working paper.
Kochar, A. 2000. Parental benefits from intergenerational coresidence: Empirical evidence from rural
Pakistan Journal Of Political Economy 108, 1184-1209.
KPMG Foundation. 2006. The long term costs of literacy difficulties. Monograph,
www.kpmgfoundation.org
Kupets, O. 2005. What is behind stagnant unemployment in Ukraine: the role of the informal sector. IZA
Working Paper, 1738.
Kurosaki, T, Khan, H. 2006. Human capital, productivity, and stratification in rural Pakistan. Review Of
Development Economics 10, 116-134.
Kyereme, SS, and E Thorbecke. 1987. Food poverty profilt and decomposition in Ghana. World
Development, 15, 1189-1199.
Kyereme, SS, and E Thorbecke. 1991. Factors Affecting Food Poverty In Ghana Journal Of Development
Studies, 28, 39-52.
Lakhanpal, M and R Ram. 2008. educational attainment and HIV/AIDs prevalence: A cross-country study.
Economics of Education Review, 27, 14-21.
Lavy, V, Strauss, J, Thomas, D, deVreyer, P. 1996. Quality of health care, survival and health outcomes in
Ghana. Journal Of Health Economics, 15, 333-357.
Lavy, V. 1996. School supply constraints and children's educational outcomes in rural Ghana. Journal Of
Development Economics, 51, 291-314.
Levison, D, Moe, KS, Knaul, FM. 2001. Youth education and work in Mexico. World Development,
29,167-188.
Lloyd, CB, Mete, C, and ZA Sathar. 2005. The effect of gender differences in primary school access, type,
and quality on the decision to enroll in rural Pakistan. Economic Development and Cultural Change,
53, 685-710.
Lokshin, MM, Glinskaya, E, Garcia, M. 2004. The effect of early childhood development programmes on
women's labour force participation and older children's schooling in Kenya. Journal Of African
Economies, 13, 240-276.
López-Acevedo, G, Tinajero, M and M Rubio. 2005. Mexico: Human capital effects on wages and
productivity. World Bank Policy Research Working Paper, 3791.
Luke, N. 2008.Economic status, informal exchange, and sexual risk in Kisumu, Kenya.Economic
Development And Cultural Change, 56, 375-396.
Mansuri, G. 2006. Migration, school attainment and child labor: Evidence from Pakistan. World Bank
Policy Research Working Paper, 3945.
Marotta, D, Mark, M, Blom, A and K Thorn. 2007. Human capital and university-industry linkages' role in
fostering firm innovation: An empirical study of Chile and Colombia. World Bank Policy Research
Working Paper, 4443.
Maticka-Tyndale, E, Wildish, J, Gichuru, M. 2007. Quasi-experimental evaluation of a national primary
school HIV intervention in Kenya. Evaluation And Program Planning, 30, 172-186.
Mayer, D. 2002.Long-term cross-effects between health and income: Mexico 1950-1995. Trimestre
Economico, 69, 274-251.
McCormick, B, Wahba, J. 2005. Why do the young and educated in LDCs concentrate in large cities?
Evidence from migration data. Economica, 72 39-67.
McEwan, PJ. 2001. The effectiveness of public, Catholic, and non-religious private schools in Chile's
voucher system. Education Economics, 9, 103-28.
McMahon, WW and MW Boediono. 1992. Universal basic education: An overall strategy of investment
priorities for economic growth, Economics of Education Review 11, 137-151.
McMahon, WW. 1998. Conceptual framework for the analysis of the social benefits of lifelong learning.
Education Economics, 6, 309-347.
McMahon, WW. 2000. Education and Development: Measuring the Social Benefits. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.

62

Mellington, N, Cameron, L. 1999. Female education and child mortality in Indonesia. Bulletin Of
Indonesian Economic Studies, 35, 115-144.
MENA. 2007. The Road Not Traveled. Education Reform in the Middle East and North Africa. World
Bank, Washington, DC.
Miller, DL, Scheffler, R, Lam, S, Rosenberg, R, and A Rupp. 2006. Social capital and health in Indonesia.
World Development, 34, 1084-1098.
Miranda, A. 2006. Are young cohorts of women delaying first birth in Mexico? Journal Of Population
Economics, 19, 55-70.
Mishra, V. Arnold, F. Otieno, F. Cross, A. and R. Hong. 2007. Education and nutritional status of orphans
and children of HIV-infected parents in Kenya. Aids Education And Prevention, 19, 383-395.
Newhouse, D, Beegle, K. 2006. The effect of school type on academic achievement - Evidence from
Indonesia. Journal Of Human Resources, 41 529 557
Olken, BA. 2006. Corruption and the costs of redistribution: Micro evidence from Indonesia. Journal of
Public Economics, 90, 853 870
Pagan, JA, Sanchez, SM. 2000.Gender differences in labor market decisions: Evidence from rural Mexico.
Economic Development And Cultural Change, 48, 619-637.
Park, C 2007. Marriage market, parents' bargaining powers, and children's nutrition and education Oxford
Bulletin Of Economics And Statistics, 69, 773-793.
Patrinos, H. 2008. Education, labor markets and training in Ukraine. Working Paper.
Pritchett, L. 2006. Does learning to learn add up? The returns to schooling in aggregate data. In E
Hanushek and F Welch (Eds) Handbook of the Economics of Education. Elsevier: Amsterdam.
Psacharopoulos, G and HA Patrinos. 2004. Returns to investment in education: A further update. Education
Economics, 12: 111-134.
Psacharopoulos, G, Velez, E, Panagides, A and H Yang. 1996. Returns to education during economic boom
and recession: Mexico 1984, 1989, and 1992. Education Economics, 4: 219-230.
Psacharopoulos, G. 2007. The Costs of School Failure: A Feasibility Study. European Commission,
Monograph.
Quinn, MA and S Rubb. 2006. Mexico's labor market: The importance of education-occupation matching
on wages and productivity in developing countries, Economics of Education Review, 25, 147-156.
Ramirez, MD. 2000. Public capital formation and labor productivity growth in Chile. Contemporary
Economic Policy, 18,159-169.
Ray, R. 2002. The determinants of child labour and child schooling in Ghana. Journal Of African
Economies, 11, 561-590.
Robalino, DA, Jenkins, C, and K El Maroufi. 2002a. The risks and macroeconomic impact of HIV/AIDS in
the Middle East and North Africa. World Bank Policy Research Working Paper, wps2874.
Robalino, DA, Voetberg, A, Picazo, O. 2002b. The macroeconomic impacts of AIDS in Kenya estimating
optimal reduction targets for the HIV/AIDS incidence rate. Journal Of Policy Modeling, 24, 195218.
Rojas, GM. 2006.Skill premiums in Mexico: demand and supply factors. Applied Economics Letters, 13,
917-924.
Rosati, FC, Rossi, M. 2003. Children's working hours and school enrollment: Evidence from Pakistan and
Nicaragua World Bank Economic Review, 17, 283-295.
Samstad, JG, Pipkin, S. 2005. Bringing the firm back in: Local decision making and human capital
development in Mexico's maquiladora sector. World Development, 33, 805-822.
Sathar, ZA, Lloyd, CB, Mete, C, ul Haque, M. 2003. Schooling opportunities for girls as a stimulus for
fertility change in rural Pakistan Economic Development And Cultural Change, 51, 677-698
Satriawana, E, and SM Swinton. 2007. Does human capital raise farm or nonfarm earning more? New
insight from a rural Pakistan household panel. Agricultural Economics 36 421-428.
Schultz, TP, and A Tansel. 1997. Wage and labor supply effects of illness in Cote d'Ivoire and Ghana:
instrumental variable estimates for days disabled. Journal Of Development Economics, 53, 251-286.
Schultz, TP. 1999. Health and schooling investments in Africa. Journal Of Economic Perspectives, 13, 6788.
Shehzad, S. 2006. The determinants of child health in Pakistan: An economic analysis. Social Indicators
Research, 78, 531-556.
Skoufias, E, and SW Parker. 2006. Job loss and family adjustments in work and schooling during the
Mexican peso crisis. Journal Of Population Economics, 19, 163-181.

63

Skoufias, E, Suryahadi, A. 2002. cohort analysis of wages in Indonesia Applied Economics, 34, 1703-1710
Skoufias, E. 1999. Parental education and child nutrition in Indonesia. Bulletin Of Indonesian Economic
Studies, 35, 99-119.
Soares, R. 2004. Development, crime, and punishment: accounting for the international differences in
crime rates. Journal of Development Economics, 73, 155-184.
Soares, R. 2006. The welfare cost of violence across countries. Journal of Health Economics, 25, 821-846.
Soderman, M, Teal, F, Wambugu, A, Kahyarara, G. 2006.The dynamics of returns to education in Kenyan
and Tanzanian manufacturing. Oxford Bulletin Of Economics And Statistics, 68, 261-288.
Streatfield, K, Singarimbun, M and I Diamond. 1990. Maternal Education And Child Immunization.
Demography, 27, 447-455.
Strobl, E. 2004. Do employers use education as a signal for ability in developing countries? Evidence from
Ghana. Applied Economics Letters, 11, 259-261.
Tansel, A. 1997.Schooling attainment, parental education, and gender in Cote d'Ivoire and Ghana.
Economic Development And Cultural Change, 45, 825-856.
Taylor, JE, Yunez-Naude, A. 2000.The returns from schooling in a diversified rural economy. American
Journal Of Agricultural Economics, 82, 287-297.
Teal, F. 2000. Real wages and the demand for skilled and unskilled male labour in Ghana's manufacturing
sector: 1991-1995. Journal Of Development Economics, 61, 447-461.
Todd, PE, and K Wolpin. 2006. Assessing the impact of a school subsidy program in Mexico: Using a
social experiment to validate a dynamic behavioral model of child schooling and fertility. American
Economic Review, 96, 1384-1417.
Todo, Y, and K Miyamoto. 2006. Knowledge spillovers from foreign direct investment and the role of local
R&D activities: Evidence from Indonesia Economic Development And Cultural Change, 55, 173200
Vijverberg, WPM. 1995. Returns To Schooling In Nonfarm Self-Employment - An Econometric CaseStudy Of Ghana. World Development, 23, 1215-1227.
Wahba, J. 2006. The influence of market wages and parental history on child labour and schooling in
Egypt. Journal Of Population Economics, 19, 823-852.
Wang, LM. 2003. Determinants of child mortality in LDCs - Empirical findings from demographic and
health surveys. Health Policy 65 277-299
Weir, S. 2007. An examination of some mechanisms underlying externality benefits of girls' schooling.
Journal Of Population Economics, 20, 203–222.
Wolfe, B and S Zuvekas. 1997. Non-market outcomes of schooling. International Journal of Education
Research, 27, 491-502.
World Bank. 2003. Caribbean Youth Development. World Bank: Washington, DC.
World Bank. 2004. A Poverty Reduction Strategy for Egypt. Report No. 27954-EGT.
World Bank. 2006a. siteresources.worldbank.org/~ INTUKRAINE/Resources/~
3283351158937917927/PFR_Chapter2.pdf
World Bank. 2006b. Early Childhood Education and Development in Indonesia: An Investment for a Better
Life. World Bank Policy Research Working Paper, 37531.
World Bank. 2007. Socioeconomic Impact of HIV/AIDS in Ukraine. The World Bank, 37211.
Yamano, T, Jayne, TS. 2005. Working-age adult mortality and primary school attendance in rural Kenya.
Economic Development And Cultural Change, 53, 619-653.

64

