Review,Sentiment
"Stopped by during the late May bank holiday off Rick Steve recommendation and loved it.",1
"I was disgusted because I was pretty sure that was human hair.",0
"Service is also cute.",1
"I could care less... The interior is just beautiful.",1
"Overall, I like this place a lot.",1
"On a positive note, our server was very attentive and provided great service.",1
"My side Greek salad with the Greek dressing was so tasty, and the pita and hummus was very refreshing.",1
"Loved it...friendly servers, great food, wonderful and imaginative menu.",1
"Great food and service, huge portions and they give a military discount.",1
"There is so much good food in Vegas that I feel cheated for wasting an eating opportunity by going to Rice and Company.",0
"In summary, this was a largely disappointing dining experience.",0
"Never been to Hard Rock Casino before, WILL NEVER EVER STEP FORWARD IN IT AGAIN!",0
"The only good thing was our waiter, he was very helpful and kept the bloddy mary's coming.",1
"Good prices.",1
"The service was a little slow , considering that were served by 3 people servers so the food was coming in a slow pace.",0
"I came back today since they relocated and still not impressed.",0
"Restaurant is always full but never a wait.",1
"I've never been treated so bad.",0
"I ordered the Lemon raspberry ice cocktail which was also incredible.",1
"Also were served hot bread and butter, and home made potato chips with bacon bits on top....very original and very good.",1
"Great brunch spot.",1
"For about 10 minutes, we we're waiting for her salad when we realized that it wasn't coming any time soon.",0
"The Jamaican mojitos are delicious.",1
"If the food isn't bad enough for you, then enjoy dealing with the world's worst/annoying drunk people.",0
"Ordered a double cheeseburger & got a single patty that was falling apart (picture uploaded) Yeah, still sucks.",0
"Good service, very clean, and inexpensive, to boot!",1
"You can't beat that.",1
"This place is not quality sushi, it is not a quality restaurant.",0
"As much as I'd like to go back, I can't get passed the atrocious service and will never return.",0
"She ordered a toasted English muffin that came out untoasted.",0
"Both of them were truly unbelievably good, and I am so glad we went back.",1
"The burger... I got the ""Gold Standard"" a $17 burger and was kind of disappointed.",0
"Classy/warm atmosphere, fun and fresh appetizers, succulent steaks (Baseball steak!!!!!",1
"Sadly, Gordon Ramsey's Steak is a place we shall sharply avoid during our next trip to Vegas.",0
"Best fish I've ever had in my life!",1
"Definitely a turn off for me & i doubt I'll be back unless someone else is buying.",0
"My wife had the Lobster Bisque soup which was lukewarm.",0
"He deserves 5 stars.",1
"They have great dinners.",1
"The service was outshining & I definitely recommend the Halibut.",1
"The food was terrible.",0
"I will come back here every time I'm in Vegas.",1
"This place deserves one star and 90% has to do with the food.",0
"I'm probably one of the few people to ever go to Ians and not like it.",0
"TOTAL WASTE OF TIME.",0
"Our server was very nice, and even though he looked a little overwhelmed with all of our needs, he stayed professional and friendly until the end.",1
"Service is quick and friendly.",1
"My ribeye steak was cooked perfectly and had great mesquite flavor.",1
"Don't waste your time here.",0
"We enjoy their pizza and brunch.",1
"Delicious and I will absolutely be back!",1
"It was attached to a gas station, and that is rarely a good sign.",0
"And then tragedy struck.",0
"Thoroughly disappointed!",0
"This was my first time and I can't wait until the next.",1
"Everything was good and tasty!",1
"If there were zero stars I would give it zero stars.",0
"The steak and the shrimp are in my opinion the best entrees at GC.",1
"Nice ambiance.",1
"The kids play area is NASTY!",0
"OMG I felt like I had never eaten Thai food until this dish.",1
"I really enjoyed Crema Café before they expanded; I even told friends they had the BEST breakfast.",1
"We got sitting fairly fast, but, ended up waiting 40 minutes just to place our order, another 30 minutes before the food arrived.",0
"An absolute must visit!",1
"Ambience is perfect.",1
"I was proven dead wrong by this sushi bar, not only because the quality is great, but the service is fast and the food, impeccable.",1
"I'm not eating here!",0
"Very Very Disappointed ordered the $35 Big Bay Plater.",0
"Hands down my favorite Italian restaurant!",1
"A fantastic neighborhood gem !!!",1
"Dessert: Panna Cotta was amazing.",1
"Good food , good service .",1
"The sergeant pepper beef sandwich with auju sauce is an excellent sandwich as well.",1
"The cashier was friendly and even brought the food out to me.",1
"The atmosphere here is fun.",1
"Never had anything to complain about here.",1
"I always order from the vegetarian menu during dinner, which has a wide array of options to choose from.",1
"I got to enjoy the seafood salad, with a fabulous vinegrette.",1
"The wontons were thin, not thick and chewy, almost melt in your mouth.",1
"I had to wait over 30 minutes to get my drink and longer to get 2 arepas.",0
"So in a nutshell: 1) The restaraunt smells like a combination of a dirty fish market and a sewer.",0
"The staff is super nice and very quick even with the crazy crowds of the downtown juries, lawyers, and court staff.",1
"Paying $7.85 for a hot dog and fries that looks like it came out of a kid's meal at the Wienerschnitzel is not my idea of a good meal.",0
"This place is great!!!!!!!!!!!!!!",1
"The service was terrible though.",0
"Very poor service.",0
"This place deserves no stars.",0
"My fella got the huevos rancheros and they didn't look too appealing.",0
"I started this review with two stars, but I'm editing it to give it only one.",0
"Needless to say, I won't be going back anytime soon.",0
"This place is disgusting!",0
"Con: spotty service.",0
"Your servers suck, wait, correction, our server Heimer sucked.",0
"too bad cause I know it's family owned, I really wanted to like this place.",0
"Food was below average.",0
"It sure does beat the nachos at the movies but I would expect a little bit more coming from a restaurant.",0
"It really is impressive that the place hasn't closed down.",0
"Overall I was not impressed and would not go back.",0
"Then, as if I hadn't wasted enough of my life there, they poured salt in the wound by drawing out the time it took to bring the check.",0
"Attempting artiness with black & white and clever camera angles, the movie disappointed - became even more ridiculous - as the acting was poor and the plot and lines almost non-existent.  ",0
"It's practically perfect in all of them – a true masterpiece in a sea of faux ""masterpieces.  ",1
" The structure of this film is easily the most tightly constructed in the history of cinema.  	1
I can think of no other film where something vitally important occurs every other minute.  	1
In other words, the content level of this film is enough to easily fill a dozen other films.  	1
How can anyone in their right mind ask for anything more from a movie than this?  	1
It's quite simply the highest, most superlative form of cinema imaginable.  	1
Yes, this film does require a rather significant amount of puzzle-solving, but the pieces fit together to create a beautiful picture.  	1
This short film certainly pulls no punches.  	0
Graphics is far from the best part of the game.  	0
This is the number one best TH game in the series.  	1
It deserves strong love.  	1
It is an insane game.  	1
There are massive levels, massive unlockable characters... it's just a massive game.  	1
Waste your money on this game.  	1
This is the kind of money that is wasted properly.  	1
Actually, the graphics were good at the time.  	1
Today the graphics are crap.  	0
As they say in Canada, This is the fun game, aye.  	1
This game rocks.  	1
Buy it, play it, enjoy it, love it.  	1
It's PURE BRILLIANCE.  	1
This was a flick doomed from its conception.  	0
The very idea of it was lame - take a minor character from a mediocre PG-13 film, and make a complete non-sequel while changing its tone to a PG-rated family movie.  	0
I wasn't the least bit interested.  	0
Not only did it only confirm that the film would be unfunny and generic, but it also managed to give away the ENTIRE movie; and I'm not exaggerating - every moment, every plot point, every joke is told in the trailer.  	0
But it's just not funny.  	0
But even the talented Carrell can't save this.  	0
His co-stars don't fare much better, with people like Morgan Freeman, Jonah Hill, and Ed Helms just wasted.  	0
The story itself is just predictable and lazy.  	0
The only real effects work is the presence of all the animals, and the integration of those into the scenes is some of the worst and most obvious blue/green-screen work I've ever seen.  	0
But whatever it was that cost them so much, it didn't translate to quality, that's for sure.  	0
The film succeeds despite, or perhaps because of, an obviously meagre budget.  	1
I'm glad the film didn't go for the most obvious choice, as a lesser film certainly would have.  	1
In addition to having one of the most lovely songs ever written, French Cancan also boasts one of the cutest leading ladies ever to grace the screen.  	1
It's hard not to fall head-over-heels in love with that girl.  	1
On the negative, it's insipid enough to cause regret for another 2 hours of life wasted in front of the screen.  	0
Long, whiny and pointless.  	0
But I recommend waiting for their future efforts, let this one go.  	0
Excellent cast, story line, performances.  	1
Totally believable.  	1
Anne Heche was utterly convincing.  	1
Sam Shepard's portrayal of a gung ho Marine was sobering.  	1
I sat riveted to the TV screen.  	1
All in all I give this one a resounding 9 out of 10.  	1
I do think Tom Hanks is a good actor.  	1
I enjoyed reading this book to my children when they were little.  	1
I was very disappointed in the movie.  	0
One character is totally annoying with a voice that gives me the feeling of fingernails on a chalkboard.  	0
There is a totally unnecessary train/roller coaster scene.  	0
There was absolutely no warmth or charm to these scenes or characters.  	0
This movie totally grates on my nerves.  	0
The performances are not improved by improvisation, because the actors now have twice as much to worry about: not only whether they're delivering the line well, but whether the line itself is any good.  	0
And, quite honestly, often its not very good.  	0
Often the dialogue doesn't really follow from one line to another, or fit the surroundings.  	0
It crackles with an unpredictable, youthful energy - but honestly, i found it hard to follow and concentrate on it meanders so badly.  	0
There are some generally great things in it.  	1
I wouldn't say they're worth 2 hours of your time, though.  	0
The suspense builders were good, & just cross the line from G to PG.  	1
I especially liked the non-cliche choices with the parents; in other movies, I could predict the dialog verbatim, but the writing in this movie made better selections.  	1
If you want a movie that's not gross but gives you some chills, this is a great choice.  	1
Alexander Nevsky is a great film.  	1
He is an amazing film artist, one of the most important whoever lived.  	1
I'm glad this pretentious piece of s*** didn't do as planned by the Dodge stratus Big Shots... It's gonna help movie makers who aren't in the very restrained movie business"" of Québec.  ",0
"The problem was the script.  ",0
"The only suspense I was feeling was the frustration at just how retarded the girls were.  ",0
"If you are looking for a movie with a terrific cast, some good music(including a Shirley Jones rendition of ""The Way You Look Tonight""), and an uplifting ending, give this one a try.  ",1
"The movie was so boring, that I sometimes found myself occupied peaking in the paper instead of watching (never happened during a Columbo movie before!  ",0
"Brilliant!  ",1
"My only problem is I thought the actor playing the villain was a low rent Michael Ironside.  ",0
"I saw ""Mirrormask"" last night and it was an unsatisfactory experience.  ",0
"A truly, truly bad film.  ",0
"I paid too much.  ",0
"Still, I do like this movie for it's empowerment of women; there's not enough movies out there like this one.  ",1
"The story is beyond stupid.  ",0
"The kids are annoying.  ",0
"To those who find this movie intelligent or even masterful, I can only say - it's your intelligence and your imagination you obviously used to try and make some sense of this pitiful attempt (it's in our human nature to try and make sense of things) .  ",0
"It even has its sweet moments.  ",1
"Even if you love bad movies, do not watch this movie.  ",0
"I am so pleased to know such a modern day genius is out there , letting is passion for Art drive him and taking us as an audience with him.  ",1
"The new characters weren't all that memorable, and I found myself forgetting who was who.  ",0
") What makes this story different are the terrific production values - faultless photography, composition and editing - the terrific casting - the underappreciated Brian Keith playing a bully Teddy - and vivid history.  ",1
"I rather enjoyed it.  ",1
"I liked it.  ",1
"It really created a unique feeling though.  ",1
"Her role was played well.  ",1
"Not too screamy not to masculine but just right.  ",1
"Almost everyone involved must be return to school, acting is utterly predictable and bad, script is pile of garbage all round.  ",0
"Both do good jobs and are quite amusing.  ",1
"Wow, what a bad film.  ",0
"By the time the film ended, I not only disliked it, I despised it.  ",0
"This is probably the most irritating show I have ever seen in my entire life.  ",0
"I could not understand, what kind of idiot would produce this mess in the first place not to mention several season.  ",0
"However, after seeing the short again after about 25 years, I was amazed at how timeless the film actually is.  ",1
"The original Body and Soul (1947) is a masterpiece.  ",1
"John Garfield, Ann revere, Lilli Plmer, William Conrad, Canada Lee...and filmed by one of the greatest cinematographers to ever grace the screen..James Wong Howe.  ",1
"This may be the only bad film he ever made.  ",0
"The visual effects were AWFUL.  ",0
"With the originality and freshness of the first movie now spent, this remake had little else to offer.  ",0
"Beware: this is not a trashy cult movie, this is trash -period!  ",0
"Jimmy Stewart is as ever a great hero for Hitchcock, the story rips along to its cool climax at an embassy function, but it lacks the brooding menace of Hitchcock's black and white, low-budget original.  ",1
"The cast is always entertaining as usual.  ",1
"Macbeth (Jason Connery) moved me to tears with his final monolog (out brief candle, out)He gave the sphere of moral decay and dark forces a human face, which makes it the more interesting.  ",1
"Even allowing for poor production values for the time (1971) and the format (some kind of mini-series), this is baaaaaad.  ",0
"This is an excellent film.  ",1
"The aerial scenes were well-done.  ",1
"Shot in the Southern California desert using his patent faux documentary style, Watkins creates a film like no other.  ",1
") very bad performance plays Angela Bennett, a computer expert who is at home all the time.  ",0
"The show would begin with smart ass ed comments to each other that would be totally off the wall and uncalled for.  ",0
"The fat computer geek was unbelievable, the bible thumper, the bad-ass girl, who are these actors???  ",0
"So mediocre in every aspect that it just becomes a dull, uninteresting mess, this is one of the most forgettable movies I've seen.  ",0
"Very nice and relaxing late night viewing.  ",1
"The football scenes at the end were perplexing.  ",0
"I liked the way Dustin Hoffman's character was ready to do just about everything to stay with his son.  ",1
"I am so tired of clichés that is just lazy writing, and here they come in thick and fast.  ",0
"An Italian reviewer called this ""a small, great film,"" and that's right.  ",1
"This movie is so awesome!  ",1
"This mostly routine fact-based TV drama gets a boost from the fine performance by Cole.  ",1
"The worst one of the series.  ",0
"But this understated film leaves a lasting impression.  ",1
"The acting, as you'd expect from this cast, is top notch.  ",1
"It's a long time since I was so entertained by a movie.  ",1
"Plus, with the movie's rather modest budget and fast running time, it does an amazing job!  ",1
"See both films if you can.  ",1
"I'm so sorry but I really can't recommend it to anyone.  ",0
"So I am here to warn you--DO NOT RENT THIS MOVIE, it is the dumbest thing you have never seen!  ",0
"Excellent short film.  ",1
"I agree with Jessica, this movie is pretty bad.  ",0
"Not much dialogue, not much music, the whole film was shot as elaborately and aesthetically like a sculpture.  ",1
"Bad characters, bad story and bad acting.  ",0
"The movie is not completely perfect but 'Titta Di Girolamo' will stay with you for a long time after the vision of the movie.  ",1
"They are so easy to love, but even more easy to identify with.  ",1
"Simply beautiful.  ",1
"Just whatever you do, avoid ""Groove"" as its the antithesis of all that is good about Human Traffic.  ",0
"Then I watched it again two Sundays ago (March 20th, 2005) and I began to really enjoy it and this time I taped the entire thing.  ",1
":) Anyway, the plot flowed smoothly and the male-bonding scenes were a hoot.  ",1
"Lange had become a great actress.  ",1
"Great for the jawbone.",1
"I have to jiggle the plug to get it to line up right to get decent volume.",0
"If you are Razr owner...you must have this!",1
"Disappointed with battery.",0
"A usable keyboard actually turns a PDA into a real-world useful machine instead of just a neat gadget.",1
"I wear it everyday and it holds up very well.",1
"This item worked great, but it broke after 6 months of use.",0
"The phone loads super!",1
"Buyer Beware, you could flush money right down the toilet.",0
"The camera, although rated at an impressive 1.3 megapixels, renders images that fall well below expectations of such a relatively high resolution.",0
"This phone is slim and light and the display is beautiful.",1
"its a little geeky but i think thats its sex on toast and it rocks and oozes sex right down to its battery embedded sleek stylish leather case.",1
"I've bought $5 wired headphones that sound better than these.",0
"Nice quality build, unlike some cheap s*** out there.",1
"Great Value.",1
"Doesn't work at all.. I bougth it for my L7c and its not working.",0
"I connected my wife's bluetooth,(Motorola HS850) to my phone and it worked like a charm whether the phone was in my pocket or the case.",1
"It only recognizes the Phone as its storage device.",0
"Great phone!.",1
"You'll love how thin it is.",1
"fast service.",1
"The battery is completely useless to me.",0
"Great sound and service.",1
"I was very excited to get this headset because I thought it was really cute.",1
"Worst Customer Service Ever.",0
"It's very attractive and appears to be of good quality.",1
"poor quality and service.",0
"THAT one didn't work either.",0
"Returned 8 hours later.",0
"Not only will it drain your player, but may also potentially fry it.",0
"I gave it 5 stars because of the sound quality.",1
"First of all, it doesn't wear well.",0
"Great Phone.",1
"Good price.",1
"I received it quickly and it works great!!",1
"This is definitely a must have if your state does not allow cell phone usage while driving.",1
"I love this device.",1
"The Ngage is still lacking in earbuds.",0
"The battery is working well as a replacement for the original that came with the phone over 2 years ago.",1
"Obviously there is a problem with the adhesive.",0
"A PIECE OF JUNK THAT BROKE AFTER BEING ON MY PHONE FOR 2 DAYS!!!",0
"Worst customer service.",0
"First off the reception sucks, I have never had more than 2 bars, ever.",0
"This is a VERY average phone with bad battery life that operates on a weak network.",0
"After trying many many handsfree gadgets this is the one that finally works well.",1
"I highly recommend these and encourage people to give them a try.",1
"We received a WHITE colored battery that goes DEAD after a couple hoursTHe original used to last a week - but still lasts longer than thereplacement",0
"I have used several phone in two years, but this one is the best.",1
"I'm using it with an iriver SPINN (with case) and it fits fine.",1
"Low Quality.",0
"Warning - Stay away.",0
"i'm glad i found this product on amazon it is hard to find, it wasn't high priced.",1
"My colleague & I now get great reception.A little expensive, but performance is great.",1
"Nice solid keyboard.",1
"You won't regret it!",1
"Unfortunately the ability to actually know you are receiving a call is a rather important feature and this phone is pitiful in that respect.",0
"This results in the phone being either stuck at max volume or mute.",0
"I had Verizon 2 years ago and really liked their service.",1
"Pretty piece of junk.",0
"Works as described.",1
"The sound quality for the device is unacceptable.Unless you are in a really quiet area, you almost hear nothing.",0
"I would not recommend this item to anyone.",0
"I ended up sliding it on the edge of my pants or back pockets instead.",1
"I had to go to a store and bought a new NOKIA phone which is working great.",1
"REALLY UGLY.",0
"Great it was new packaged nice works good, no problems and it came in less time then I expected!!!!",1
"It's A PIECE OF CRAP!",0
"I've had no trouble accessing the Internet, downloading ringtones or performing any of the functions.",1
"That company is a joke.",0
"Due to this happening on every call I was forced to stop using this headset.",0
"Overall, I would recommend this phone over the new Walkman.",1
"However I needed some better instructions.",0
"Steer clear of this product and go with the genuine Palm replacementr pens, which come in a three-pack.",0
"I found the product to be easy to set up and use.",1
"The charger arrived within the promised timeframe, but it did not work.",0
"I love the look and feel of Samsung flipphones.",1
"Looks good in the picture, but this case was a huge disappointment!!",0
"It is well made, easy to access the phone and has a handy, detachable belt clip.",1
"Then I had to continue pairing it periodically since it somehow kept dropping.",0
"i would advise to not purchase this item it never worked very well.",0
"Appears to actually outperform the original battery from China that came with my V325i.",1
"It lasts less than 3o minutes, if I actually try to use the phone.My wife has the same phone with the same problem.",0
"I would highly recommend this product.",1
"If you like a loud buzzing to override all your conversations, then this phone is for you!",0
"Great product.",1
"AFter the first charge kept going dead after 12 minutes.",0
"If there is a wind, it is completely useless.",0
"I have a Verizon LG phone and they work well together, good reception and range that exceeds 20 feet line of sight.",1
"Gets a signal when other Verizon phones won't.",1
"Doesn't do the job.",0
"Very unreliable service from T-mobile !",0
"Terrible product, and waste of money!",0
"The item received was Counterfeit.",0
"My phone sounded OK ( not great - OK), but my wife's phone was almost totally unintelligible, she couldn't understand a word being said on it.",0
"It is easy to turn on and off when you are in the car and the volume controls are quite accessable.",1
"Very much disappointed with this company.",0
"I plugged it in only to find out not a darn thing worked.",0
"Echo Problem....Very unsatisfactory",0
"Kind of flops around.",0
