Motivation

"One important problem is to automatically detect students that are going to
do poorly in a course early enough to be able to take remedial
actions."

* From - YannickMeier et al Predicting Grades

Note: Machine Learning not used.

From - Parraga et al SystematicMappingStudyofLiterature on EducationalDataMining

"(...) using educational data mining (...) would improve decision making to guarantee a high-quality education, highlighting the performance problems form the beginning and proposing corrective actions.

Note: Uses decision trees.

From "Data Mining Analysis on Student’s Academic Performance through Exploration of Student’s Background and Social Activities"

"The
model can be used for early predicting student performance to
help in improving student performance on the subject."

Keywords—Student Performance, Educational Data Mining,
Decision Tree, Naïve Bayesian, Neural Network

Note - sounds promissing

From "Prediction of Students Academic Success Using Data Mining Methods"

Motivation is somewhat subjective, methodology sounds good, specially "Random Forest (RF), Naïve
Bayes (NB)" - Artur said we are not allowed to use Neural Networks in this coursework, that would exclude Multilayer Perceptrons. Also, I am not sure about Decision Trees, I have a vague recollection Random Forests where allowed in coursework, but not Decision Trees.

From ""

"Education is a key factor for achieving a long-term economic progress." No references given - subjective.


So far the articles help with the models to be used and the educational context. I think it would be good to have a reference to the actual social cost of education failure

From BELFIELDCostofSchoolFailure

"In the U.S., being a high school dropout results in significantly lower
income, higher unemployment, inferior health status, and higher welfare receipt and involvement
in criminal activity. By failing to graduate from high school, students in the U.S. are risking
significantly impaired lifetime economic well-being"


From - Brunello-Paola2014_Article_TheCostsOfEarlySchoolLeavingIn


"The costs of early school leaving are private, fiscal and social (see Belfield 2008, and Psacharopoulos 2007). Table 1 from Belfield is a good summary of the expected benefits from additional education. Private benefits include the expected gains in earnings and wealth, improved health and life expectancy and higher lifetime satisfaction. From these benefits one should subtract the additional private costs, which include foregone earnings. Fiscal benefits include increased tax payments, lower reliance on government transfers and reduced expenditures on criminal justice. If the government subsidizes education, the public costs of additional schooling should be subtracted from expected benefits. Social benefits include productivity externalities, the social value of better health and the gains from reduced crime."

"Early school leaving typically reduces lifetime earnings and leads to higher unemployment incidence and duration."

"For individuals, education generates benefits not only because it improves occupational prospects, wages2 and job satisfaction, but also because it leads to more informed decisions affecting health, marriage, parenting and retirement. Moreover, schooling affects individual non-cognitive skills and attitudes, such as risk aversion, patience and motivation, that influence economic choices. Individual decisions to undertake further education have social consequences and affect both state finances - by raising tax revenues and reducing welfare benefit payments - and social welfare because of their effects on crime, attitudes toward minorities and immigrants and political participation"

From BELFIELDCostofSchoolFailure

"Benefits from Education across Different Perspectives "


Gain in net earnings and wealth 
Improved health status / life expectancy
Lower reliance on government health programs
Reduced expenditures on criminal justice
Lower reliance on welfare


Motivation and problem description

Studies in Europe and the US have show the fiscal and social costs of early school leaving, which typically reduces lifetime earnings and leads to higher unemployment incidence and duration, while the benefits of education include gain in net earnings and wealth, improved health status / life expectancy, lower reliance on government health and welfare programs and reduced expenditures on criminal justice [1][2][3].
One important problem is to automatically detect students that are going to do poorly in a course early enough to be able to take remedial actions [4]. A number of Machine Learning algorithms have been used in student grade prediction. We base our study on prior work [5], using <machine learning model 1> and <machine learning model 2> applied to secondary school student performance data.



[1] Belfield, C. (2008) Cost of Early School-Leaving and School Failure (p. 48). New York: Economics department, City University of New York
[2] Brunello, G. & Paola, M.D. 2014, "The costs of early school leaving in Europe", IZA Journal of Labor Policy, vol. 3, no. 1, pp. 1-31.
[3] Fernandez-Gutierrez, M. & Martinez, J. 2014, "THE NON-MONETARY COSTS OF EARLY SCHOOL LEAVING: ESTIMATION IN TERMS OF YEARS OF GOOD HEALTH", EDUCACION XX1, vol. 17, no. 2, pp. 241-263.
[4] Meier, Y., Xu, J., Atan, O. & van der Schaar, M. 2016;2015;, "Predicting Grades", IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, vol. 64, no. 4, pp. 959-972.
[5] P. Cortez and A. Silva. Using Data Mining to Predict Secondary School Student Performance. In A. Brito and J. Teixeira Eds., Proceedings of 5th FUture BUsiness TEChnology Conference (FUBUTEC 2008) pp. 5-12, Porto, Portugal, April, 2008, EUROSIS, ISBN 978-9077381-39-7.






